
furnish him a room as handsome as possible. When it was ready and the
THE MOUSE, THE BIRD, AND THE SAUSAGE
draught of it he would be well again; but it is very hard to get.’ Then
befriended two other countries through which they passed on their way.
trembled for fear, for she saw that it was King Grisly-beard, who was
you will repent it.’ Then the fox stretched out his tail again, and the
head to foot.
bed before she awoke, in which was a rose from each tree. In the winter
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.
false bride; for that she was merely a waiting-maid, while the true
out on their journey together, and came at last to an ant-hill. The two


earn my livelihood?’ ‘Hark ye!’ said the ass, ‘I am going to the great
could not refuse the request, on account of the dwarf’s third gift.
down on her head, and she was crushed to death.
himself: ‘Ah, if I could but shudder! Ah, if I could but shudder!’ A
the rascally cur had got the steak in his mouth, and was making off with
While she was making the most of it, her master came and cried: ‘Hurry

and meanwhile the parents could hear nothing of their child.
dead wife: unless I have her, I shall not find any bride upon the whole
and caused him to be informed that as he was a great warrior, he had one
There she was forced to do hard work; to rise early before daylight, to
and ordered him to be cast into the deepest dungeon. Then the huntsman
would take him in. The people about court did not at all know what use
scorches so that it begins to wither, and I don’t know that I can carry
into the great trough, and was drowned. But Red-Cap went joyously home,
however, was untrue; the cat had no cousin, and had not been asked to
help in her need, and went away, and journeyed on the whole night, till
to sit here by ourselves, without any children to play about and amuse
the best of the king’s three daughters. Now they were all beautiful, and
other horse, and they went on in this way till at last they came to the


my knife?’ The seventh, ‘Who has been drinking my wine?’ Then the first
There was once a cook named Gretel, who wore shoes with red heels, and

look, the beautiful jewels lying there! Grant me my life; what do you

    
saw that something was moving and struggling in his gorged belly. ‘Ah,
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
of fortune.’ ‘Ah, no!’ answered the gardener, ‘I am no child of fortune;
Then Rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take
‘Hansel, why do you stop and look round?’ said the father, ‘go on.’ ‘I
fine castle; and around the castle was a garden, in one half of which it

when you get it into your hand, ride away.’

lion forthwith became a prince, and the dragon a princess again. But
When all were ready, the king sent them to her; but she got up in the
stood still and peeped back at the house, and did so again and again.
facility: www.gutenberg.org.
came, with a flock of sheep, the very shepherd whom the peasant knew had
I never will.’ As soon as he was gone, there came by some pedlars with
received no answer; so she went to the bed and drew back the curtains.
wood and bring in fuel; the mouse fetched the water, and the sausage saw
red, so she called him ‘Coxcomb.’ The sixth was not straight enough;
every now and then I will let fall a white feather, that will show you
grace, and if during that time you tell me my name, you shall keep your
sacksful of millet-seed on the grass; then she said: ‘Tomorrow morning
to save me.’ The man assured her again that he would on no account touch
the way I am going; follow it, and at last you may overtake and set me
Meantime little Heinel grew up, and as the end of the twelve years drew
sought a way out, and ordered a ship which could sail on land and on
letters. Then he offered the dwarfs money, and prayed and besought them
hazel-switch and beat him, and when he growled they laughed. But the
and cheese with you, that we may have something to eat by the way.’

they did not find it. They walked the whole night and all the next day
a nice gallery for me; I can walk about there and see the country as we
tired; carry me upstairs, and put me into your bed.’ And the princess,
‘What does she want now?’ said the fish. ‘Ah!’ said the fisherman, ‘my
already.’
called for the princesses, and asked them whether what the soldier said
  Is lovelier far, O queen! than thee.’
one of her servants, and said, ‘Take Snowdrop away into the wide wood,
Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

huntsmen’s clothes made, all alike, and the eleven maidens had to put

and they lived in undisturbed happiness to a great age.
and thought it must be some strange princess, she looked so fine and
Hans with a young goat. ‘Goodbye, Gretel.’ ‘Goodbye, Hans.’ Hans takes
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
had laid aside his burden, they sat down to table, and when they had
them up again each in his turn. Then he sat down by his fire and fell

plucked the flower, and went with it in his hand into the castle, and
pick, pick; and then the others began to pick, pick, pick: and among

on Sunday!’ ‘Heaven forbid!’ said the ass, ‘come with us Master
live,’ and their mother would add: ‘What one has she must share with the
water. ‘We cannot cross,’ said Hansel, ‘I see no foot-plank, and no


‘Will you have all that is here?’ At this the thieves were frightened,
wept, and begged the man to nail up Falada’s head against a large
skin in the town, for three hundred talers.’ When the peasants heard
‘and when I have knocked him on the head you must rip him up with the
the clever son answered: ‘If I give you my cake and wine, I shall have
‘Oh,’ answered the wife, ‘he is gone into the country to his mother’s
her. When they had eaten a very scanty meal they went to bed; but the
  Will have her own will,
can nothing save my life?’ ‘No!’ said the lion, ‘nothing, unless you

said he, ‘when I asked him how he was going to earn his bread, he
Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

three-legged cat; so he took her with him, and as the poor thing limped
The next morning Dummling took the goose under his arm and set out,
what can that mean?’ and she shook her head, curled herself up, and lay
round them, and three times screamed:
beauty, another riches, and so on till she had all that was good in the

‘you only want a grindstone; the rest will come of itself. Here is one
Grisly-beard?’ ‘That is no business of mine,’ said the fiddler: ‘why
strange huntsman, and asked if he could offer him service. The king said
child,’ said she, ‘that has lost both father and mother.’ ‘How came you
‘Well done, sons!’ said the old man; ‘you have made good use of your

her loss, and said, ‘Alas! if I could only get my ball again, I would
going away she gave him a wishing-ring, and said, ‘Take this ring, and
but the cat crept behind the town walls to the church, and devoured
get up and begin betimes next day; but he was saved all the trouble, for
There was once upon a time an old goat who had seven little kids, and
grasshopper jumping towards the water, as if it were going to leap in.
‘Throw the rascal up here!’ After this the robbers never dared to go
reached the ship and got home safe.
and said, ‘This is not the right bride; let the other sister try and put
newly-coined silver pieces, and showed them the way.
had come, the witch’s daughter got into bed first, so as to lie at the
break through the thicket, but that they had all stuck fast in it, and

and she sees what she has done, we shall be lost.’ ‘But,’ said Roland,
thing, and I must and will have it.’ So she did as the old woman told
man with a good and beautiful wife. They loved each other dearly, but

Soon after came up a millstone, an egg, a duck, and a pin; and
down a piece of meat.’ So the sparrow perched upon the shelf: and having
and rapping and tapping away at such a rate, that the shoemaker was all
the leaves were all of silver, and glittered and sparkled beautifully.
A great king of a land far away in the East had a daughter who was very
they think of themselves, but what care they for the world? what can it
And now the two sat down to the table together, but the miller’s wife
when the winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found
signed and sealed the bond to do what was asked of him.

the silly girl cut off her great toe, and thus squeezed on the shoe,

departed, but he cared nothing for the gold pieces. He took them to the
spoke not a word; and the third night the princess came, and fell on his
teeth?’ ‘Ah,’ replied the youth, ‘I do so wish I could shudder, but
colours.’ ‘I will let the old lady in; she seems to be a very good
change, and to try some other way of arranging the work. Beg and pray
happily till they died.
that the dwarf was playing him, and that, at any rate, when the money
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
screamed with rage; but she could not come within two yards of him, for

  My wife Ilsabill
as a son if he accomplished it successfully. He went down again, and
‘If only I can prevent anyone knowing that I did it,’ she thought. So
her children for many years. She took the two rose-trees with her, and
was so great that she died.

giant who stood in front of it. He thought to himself, ‘If the giant
bitter tears, and said to Hansel: ‘Now all is over with us.’ ‘Be quiet,
visible. Then he fell upon them with the stick and beat them one after

off, you have no business here at night.’
1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
head.’ ‘Never mind, will do better next time.’

will do better next time.’
glass; and after that she thought she would lie down and rest. So she
from view. ‘Keep as still as a mouse,’ she said; ‘do not move or speak,
Partlet; but in the meantime she was choked by the great nut, and lay
and said, ‘Softly, softly! Speak low, that you may not awaken anybody.’
sit down and rest ourselves a little, I am so tired that I cannot stand
could wish for.
complained that a rascal had robbed him of his money, and beaten him
down in his chair and worked. At length, when it was quite dark, Clever
THE WEDDING OF MRS FOX
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
The bear and the wolf grew uneasy, and turned back and went into their
A long while after, he went to walk one day in the wood, and the old fox
fighting, which now became more furious. ‘God be with you,’ he cried
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
frightened, ran to the well, filled a cup that was standing by him full
The princess asked what she meant, and she said, ‘Let me speak with the
too great a hurry to run away; and one of them, who was bolder than
courtyard were stables and cow-houses. ‘Well,’ said the man, ‘now we
Towards two o’clock he went into the garden and on to the tan-heap to
she had lost the hair. So when the bride had done drinking, and would
‘There’s a fellow who will give his father some trouble!’ When anything
one, and went away through the wood.
tried to escape, but the guests seized him and held him fast. They
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
under the tree to watch. As the clock struck twelve he heard a rustling
away the dish, was overcome with such curiosity that he could not help
night-wind, ‘but I will ask three other winds; perhaps they have seen
fire, and once more began his old song: ‘If I could but shudder!’ When
The king’s son soon came up to her, and took her by the hand and danced
the egg that the moon had given her; and when she broke it, there ran
she turned it the door sprang open, and there sat an old lady spinning
that the guest should leave him just one chicken, and not take both. The
was coming by, driving a cow, had not stopped it. Hans soon came to
beds were covered with clean white linen, and Hansel and Gretel lay down
asleep. He still, however, slept on, and did not awake till he found
not move or stir. ‘Give an answer,’ cried the boy, ‘or take yourself
other. ‘No,’ said he, ‘I do not ask my life; only to let me play upon
when on a sudden his friend the fox met him, and said, ‘You see now
neat in the cottage: on the table was spread a white cloth, and there
at them. ‘Why do you stand gaping there?’ cried the dwarf, and his
act craftily, so as to catch both.’ So he walked for a short time by
Once upon a time there was a dear little girl who was loved by everyone
waited for his little calf, and when the cow-herd drove the cows through
stove thought that the doctor meant him, and full of terror, sprang out,

of this bare-faced robbery, but nothing he said was of any avail, for
since dead: and as he was only dressed like a poor shepherd, he would
favour of the king. ‘What is it?’ asked the king. ‘That I may smoke one
you in my grounds? I’ll give it you well for your insolence!’ and upon
take with him; however, he found nothing but an old cheese, and that
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
went on with the other two horses, she again crept under the tilt of the
‘Then I will,’ said she. ‘But, wife,’ said the fisherman, ‘how can you
by the hand, and said she should be his partner in the dance; but she
her suitors; and they all sat in a row, ranged according to their
delight, for they had given up all hope of ever seeing their dear
was dead; ‘The other two,’ said he, ‘are alive and eat, but are so
And there they live to this very day.
ASHPUTTEL

bound it with the handkerchief so that nothing could be seen, and placed
pillow of her own bed, where he slept all night long. As soon as it was
 ‘Good day, Mrs Cat of Kehrewit,
into the bargain; and that the fellow who did it carried a bow at his
forester comes home and sees that the children are gone? They must be

Now the queen lay awake all night, thinking of all the odd names that

of his money, but when it struck twelve, everything vanished from his
I had caught you, I ought to have asked you for something before I let
Grisly-beard, hadst thou taken him, they had all been thine.’ ‘Ah!
place, he answered: ‘Oh, no father, I’ll not go there, it makes me

and the shoes in his left, and he flew right away to a mill, and the
service; and that he was to send him away at once. The cook, however,
he, ‘what long nails you have! Wait, I must first cut them for you.’
that you may be able to reach it in safety, I will give you an iron wand
door was locked, and she was left alone.

booty, and so seized and swallowed him. The bird complained to the dog
everything, and only asked for a horse and some money for travelling, as
her way over the hills, to the place where the dwarfs dwelt. Then she
to King Grisly-beard,’ answered he; ‘hadst thou taken him, all had been
they were sitting at dinner and had eaten, the mother said: ‘Elsie, go
mantle of a thousand furs was made.
not see where she was gone; but she sprang into her little cabin, and
I will teach you to become the cunningest thief that ever was.’ ‘No,’
have you forgotten how many kings’ sons have already watched in vain?
and with that her heart gave way and she died. Then they tore off her
At last came the little dwarf’s turn; and he looked in the moss; but it
king’s son danced with nobody but her; and when anyone else asked her to
herself; and though he thought it most likely that the wild beasts would
  What are you making good?’
‘I must go into the forest and guard my treasures from the wicked



blood and as white as snow,’ and as she spoke the words, her heart grew
the third day she was more idle still; then she began to lie in bed in
was ready, she went and looked in the cabin for her little golden ring,
morsels for you, fat as young quails; for mercy’s sake eat them!’ The
emptied the pot of fat. ‘When everything is eaten up one has some

you must be easy, for you can be nothing greater.’ ‘I will think about
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
and as she pleased him he asked her if she would marry him, but she
While he was trying his luck in milking, and managing the matter very
Now the princess’s horse was the fairy’s gift, and it was called Falada,
light it. But the cat, not understanding this joke, sprang at his face,
went off without even once looking at the children.

‘You silly girl!’ answered the other, ‘what are you afraid of? Do you
However, the fox bid him be of good cheer, and said, ‘I will help you;
that you should light your pipe at the blue light, and I will appear

fastest, he left his wife some way behind. ‘It does not matter,’ thought
rose, flew away and did not come back. ‘How does that shot please you,


and next day laboured with all his strength, but could not finish it by
I come here,’ the tailor replied, ‘I am ready to enter the king’s
she: ‘when we turn back, I shall be so much nearer home than he.’
his courtiers, ‘May I not marry my daughter? She is the very image of my
and dig where I tell you, and you will find the yellow buttons: I dare

that is but little the worse for wear: I would not ask more than the

into broth without any mercy, like my comrades.’ ‘And would a better
 She laid her kerchief over me,
LILY AND THE LION


your family?’ ‘What does that matter,’ said the cat, ‘it is no worse
away; ‘now will I plague and punish thee at thy own house.’ The
  There Snowdrop is hiding her head; and she
who admitted to him that she had been the flower, and that up to this
enchanted prince: put me in the water again, and let me go!’ ‘Oh, ho!’
But the man went out and looked at the bird.
away, and set out into the wide world to find her brothers, wherever
outside the room.’ When these men heard the tailor speaking thus, they
far before the dog said, ‘I am very much tired--I should like to take a
walking together along the road: and the needle cried out, ‘Stop, stop!’

are obliged to watch over a great treasure which is below in the tower,
whole summer.’ ‘Where are you going, then, dear bear?’ asked Snow-white.
the bride, and said, ‘Bride, you must give me a silken cord, for then
him comfortably here; I’ll tell you what--I will tie you fast to
flour in the whole Kingdom was collected, and from it he caused a huge
at a loss to know what path to take.
a corner. When it was midnight, and the giant thought that the little
not fear the gallows; for I will only teach you to steal what will be
window, and when the king’s son came and cried:
that was the first,’ meaning that was the servant who brought the first
shining on the chimneys.’ Hansel, however, had not been looking back at


master of the situation, and the venture had to be made. They therefore
to take the blue light with him. On the way the dwarf showed him the
peasants, and just one poor one, whom they called the little peasant. He
said, ‘It is only this once, he will soon have done.’ The fact was, he
Hansel’s finger, and was astonished that there was no way of fattening
Time passed on again, and the youngest son too wished to set out into
crying, for she thought to herself, she should so have liked to have
but left me one, so that something remained for me to eat.’ He called to
  And the wedding was held, and the merry bells run.

midst of them. ‘Unlucky wretch that I am!’ cried the carter; for he saw
king’s principal servants would begin to speak of her, and would ask how
THE VALIANT LITTLE TAILOR
land. As he jumped upon the shore he saw before him a beautiful castle
Though he made the best of his bad luck, he did not like his quarters at
the countryman seized his fiddle, and struck up a tune, and at the first

cleverness, and said, ‘How very neat and clean it looks!’
nailed it up under the dark gate.
violent springs was she forced to make, and the thorns tore her clothes

and at length wicked thoughts came into his head, and he resolved to
be lord of the sun and moon.’ The fisherman was half asleep, but the
over that land many, many years; and sometimes they went up into the
at her and saw that she was just like this late queen: then he said to
an enchanted prince. By day he and all his court were lions, but in the
hangs up in the closet, and as for the bird’s heart, I will give it you
ducats, but he would not keep them, and gave them to the gardener for
when she lost her own form and ran braying down into the court in the
and have a child, and he is big, and we perhaps send him here to draw

much tired, they heard him snoring in his bed; so they said, ‘Now all
face? Was it not enough to clip off the end of my beard? Now you have
go to a well to drink. But when he began to walk and to move about, the



was afraid that some ill luck might happen to him also, and prevent his
left all his cares to Heaven, and soon fell asleep. In the morning after
not tell you.’ ‘What is it that you are always muttering between your
make me shudder,’ thought he. ‘That, too, must be an art of which I
world.’ He made a bed of moss for the boy on which he slept, and the
  When the charm is around her,
THE TRAVELLING MUSICIANS
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
should have been lost for her sake.’ Then she was much grieved, and went
Just as eleven of them had done blessing her, a great noise was heard in
When evening came, and the dwarfs had gone home, they found Snowdrop

‘that is not your little pigeon, that is the morning sun that is shining

in when we are away.’
said, ‘Let me get down, I’m tired.’ So the man took off his hat, and
horse let him sing on, and made his way quietly over the fields to his
takes the knife, sticks it in his sleeve, and goes home. ‘Good evening,
And now he had to use his own legs, and when he had walked a long

he saw a gold ring lying; and as he could not make out how it had got
longer. I will give you so much that you shall be even richer than your

  Now, mice, be ready,
peasant answered: ‘In the first place, he says that there is some wine
away.’ ‘Ah,’ said the father, ‘I have nothing but unhappiness with you.
like the moon; and a third must be dazzling as the stars: besides this,
  Hither, hither, haste away!

however, they spoke civilly to him, and gave him the egg which Partlet
me any more hay!’

the trunk on your shoulders, and I will raise up the branches and twigs;
went back and fetched three men to come with buckets and bale out the

together, and as they were travelling along, the murderers rushed out
stable for you.’ When they had gone forth, he went into the stable, and
www.gutenberg.org/license.
Then they hugged and kissed their dear little son, and gave him plenty
his shoulders, hung it on her own, picked up the diamonds, and wished
was true: and when they saw that they were discovered, and that it was
carter ran up and struck at her again with his hatchet; but away she
The third day, when her father and mother and sisters were gone, she
he went out, all four of them confessed to him that they had stolen
were seven little plates, seven little loaves, and seven little glasses

three successive days; the first day it will be drawn by four white, the
lamp was burning in the chimney. For she had run as quickly as she could
The third task was the hardest. It was to choose out the youngest and

began to walk again, but they always came deeper into the forest, and if
the old woman, who had dim eyes, could not see it, and thought it was
young men stay so long. ‘Surely,’ said he, ‘the whole seven must have


worthy of this, but the doves counselled him to do it, and at length he

understand nothing!’
tree, the father said, ‘I should like to try what each of you can do in
his dearest Rapunzel, he found the enchantress, who gazed at him with
good fellow, you must tell no tales, but turn your head the other way
By and by in came the masters of the cottage. Now they were seven little

herself: ‘He is clever and full of experience, and much esteemed in the
 ‘Tell me, glass, tell me true!
his eyes; then the king ordered him to fetch this ring up from the
sore place on my head.’ Then the king had the cook called before him
it lifted its head out of the water and said, ‘I know what your wish is,
the man asked him if he could direct him to the castle of Stromberg.
in which he had lain hid for fear of his father’s anger, and set out in
asked the soldier which of them he would choose for his wife; and he
When it was at an end, he would have held her fast by the hand, but she
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
first place help me out of this well.’ The little man took him by the
him.’ Then said the maid: ‘What a clever Elsie we have!’ and sat down
the blood of an innocent boy who has never harmed anyone?’ The cook once
the court was there. Then she bitterly grieved for the pride and folly
that was cut out, and began to ply with their little fingers, stitching
herd home again, he said to the calf: ‘If you can stand there and eat
faithful Falada was killed; but when the true princess heard of it, she
good luck was.
sparrow asked him whether he had had enough now. ‘Yes,’ said he; ‘and
apron, which the other fancied so much that she became envious, and

asleep; and the horses were standing in the stables; and on the roof sat
spinning-wheels.’ The lion replied: ‘They have restrained themselves.’
all the wine ran out, without the carter seeing it. At last he looked
sighed she, ‘if any of my father’s court should pass by and see me
But her mother said, ‘It is all of no use, you cannot go; you have no
great power and was dreaded by all the world. One day the woman was
young and simple, should try to travel through the world, when they, who
out of his pocket on the road.

midnight he was about to poke his fire, and as he was blowing it,
of fish. As they came near the brook they saw something like a large
to think that anyone could be handsomer than she was. She had a fairy
THE FROG-PRINCE
journey. Thus she went roving on through the wide world, and looked
they took him prisoner and carried him before the king. The next morning
neighbourly thing. To please you I will change, and give you my fine fat
had gone into the castle, but as yet none had come out again. Then the

night at his ease. In the morning came the fox again and met him as he
Catherine stood musing for a while, and at last said to her husband,

who was journeying along on his nag, and singing as he went. As soon as
drinking till they had forgotten how late it was; he begged therefore

lentils to sprinkle on the ground as she went along. On reaching the
  By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade.’
  For old Mr Fox is no more.’
it is the thickest; there we will light a fire for them, and give each
is something bad.’ So they ate, and after that they bargained how much

me.’ The wife liked the thought; so they left a light burning, and hid

mind, will do better.’
however, loved the ugly and lazy one best, because she was her own
among the vegetables three or four times, and there they were, buttered,
by the little dwarf, who, when he saw the sword and the loaf, said, ‘You
draw beer here, the pick-axe will perhaps fall on his head, and kill
Said Lina: ‘Be a fishpond, and I will be the duck upon it.’ The cook,
not see him again.’ She inquired of the gardener where his boy was, but
you, I shall have to let the tree fall!’ The tailor sprang nimbly down,
to see him, and said, ‘Are you at last come to set me free? Twelve
        works.
for you will get nothing else.’ Gretel took the bread under her apron,
‘To be sure,’ answered he; ‘I have two heads of it with me, and will
the sleeper, waited until he stretched his limbs and opened his eyes,
neck, and went his way. It so happened that his road one day led through
clothes, and cannot dance, and you would only put us to shame’: and off
and was about to drink it up. But the duck swam quickly to her, seized

hungry, and the salad tasted very nice; so he ate on till he came
1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
The two children therefore got up, dressed themselves quickly, and went
An honest farmer had once an ass that had been a faithful servant to him

all their shoes were worn out, so that they were obliged to leave off.

ants in their fright would run about and carry off their eggs. But the
while Hans went on the way homewards free from care. ‘After all,’
tale you know? Tell us something.’
this when the robbers returned home, dragging a young girl along with

again, and before another month had passed she had a little child, and
but the third, who was called Lily, said, ‘Dear father, bring me a
that you want to find the golden bird. You will reach a village in the
who had heard all, was friendly with the young lord, and informed him of
she began to howl quite horribly, but Gretel ran away and the godless
also be here who is coming to set me free.’
and sought the key, but it was gone. She called the boy, but no one
But when he began to hew down a tree, it was not long before he made a
he bounded into the forest and looked about right and left. After a

youth went next morning to the king, and said: ‘If it be allowed, I will
shepherd, ‘This riding is no joke, when a man has the luck to get upon

condemned him to death. When he was led forth to die, he begged a last
very unwillingly, ‘A little space I may allow thee to sit here, if thou
Immediately the hair fell down and the king’s son climbed up.
shall be blessed by God,’ cried the little tailor, ‘and give me health
and the little girl went every day to her grave and wept, and was always
time, and learnt something worth the knowing; but I am sure I do not
crevice of the tree, and the little fellow was jumping about like a dog
was ascending the stairs with them, the gardener met him, and said: ‘How
‘Fool, that is not your little cat, that is the morning sun which is
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
themselves on the griffin, who flew back with them over the Red Sea.
There was once upon a time a poor peasant called Crabb, who drove with
the maid, having groped about and found nothing, went away for a light.

indeed it is not very decent, for they have nothing upon their backs to
all the gold in the world.’ At last, however, they had pity on him, and
Thus the princess became a kitchen-maid, and helped the cook to do all

or you may fall and break the bottle, and then your grandmother will
off his head and feet. And at last he did so, and in a moment the
die, bury me under the juniper-tree.’ Then she felt comforted and happy
lay a long while senseless. Luckily a butcher soon came by, driving a
stopped over the well to wash it off, the spindle suddenly sprang out
word he went straight to the grandmother’s bed, and devoured her. Then
sugarloaf cap and a scarlet cloak; and the dwarf called to him and said,
parson, and said, ‘Sir, sir, the cow is talking!’ But the parson
‘Where is my son?’ The mother said nothing, but gave him a large dish of
of their lamentations, and inquired what was the cause; then Elsie told
a raven calling, and he followed the sound of the voice. As he drew
The king, however, had a lion which was a wondrous animal, for he knew
out the heart, and carried the cloak home with him.
peasant again said: ‘Grete, that is the third.’ The fourth had to carry
don’t,’ answered he, ‘it will discover us.’ ‘I can’t help that,’ said

and greeting him, said: ‘Give me a piece of your cake and a drink out
great wonder, there stood the shoes all ready made, upon the table. The
  Underneath the juniper-tree

shoulder, but the tailor seated himself on a branch, and the giant, who
There was once a fisherman who lived with his wife in a pigsty, close
unicorn, and caught a wild boar, and am I to fear those who are standing
is the end. The children must go, we will take them farther into the

The bird settled on a lime-tree in front of the mill and sang:


answered, ‘I am not very young, so I will have the eldest.’--And they
will change dresses with you; you shall take my royal coat to show to my
grown up, he was anxious that she should be well married and provided
pudding, and as he ate, he threw the bones under the table.
So now the bird set the table, and the mouse looked after the food and,
‘If it belonged to me alone,’ said the man, ‘you should have it.’
have nothing to do with a fish that can talk: so swim away, sir, as soon
Then the king was obliged to keep his word, and away went the young man
looked inside, and cried: ‘Beloved mother, Lady Queen, are you still
all the beasts of the forest, one after the other. But one of the good
lay in it asleep, with all her court. He told, too, how he had heard
did spill a little of anything.
princess!’ thought she, ‘what will now become of thee?’ But it happened

me.’ The manikin said: ‘That is an easy thing for me to do, but a very
There were two brothers who were both soldiers; the one was rich and
would give him great riches. The youth drew out the axe and let him go.
the animals saw that, they thought all was lost, and began to flee, each
of him. The bear said: ‘Here, children, knock the snow out of my coat a
beer, the man said to the boy: ‘Just go down into the cellar and see
my fiddle for the last time.’ The miser cried out, ‘Oh, no! no! for
there came up a little old woman, and said to him, ‘Good day, good day;
let it hang down, run away as fast as you can.’ When the gnat had heard

stop and come with us.’ But the little peasant said: ‘Oh, but I must
detail, to the willow-wren. When day broke, and the battle was to begin,
into her little house. Then good food was set before them, milk and
SECOND STORY
I sit in the sack of wisdom; here have I, in a short time, learned great
IRON HANS
the misfortunes of his dear master during his enchantment so long and so
head to foot, and for a long time did not know whether he would give
brown, so that even his mother would not have known him, and went into
that so far the dwarf should have his way: but, on the other hand, the
that fat gentleman you are driving along at his ease--one could do
fell twenty ells down, and the enchantress climbed up by it.
alarmed, and she said to herself: ‘What shall I say now when the
where a nurse was obliged to suckle it, and he ran to the king and
the beard, whereby a small part of it was lost. When the dwarf saw that
before her stood princes, and dukes, and earls: and the fisherman went
The cat’s mouth soon began to water for some more licking. ‘All good
‘And one of the robbers saw that there was a gold ring still left on her
eggs as he was told; and when he had done, the thief was sent to take
been lying sleeping all the time?” So he said: “I did the best of all,
the whole of the castle. ‘That’s right,’ said he, ‘but go faster.’ Then
bottom they found themselves in a most delightful grove of trees; and
seeing her again, and when the dance began he danced with her. After the
swans--all their cards are trumps--toss them which way you will, they
and rest myself, for I have money enough to pay for anything I want’;
believed that all he said was true, and opened the door. But who should
close by it stands a beautiful golden cage; but do not try to take the
if you have any money.’ ‘Money enough,’ replied he, ‘but your balls are
pigeons took their heads from under their wings, and looked about and
air, not only birds, large and small, but midges, and hornets, bees and
dancing upon one leg, and singing:
Everything went right for a week or two, and then Dame Ilsabill said,
pecked at him till he reared up and kicked. When the carter saw this,
One day, as he was roaming along in a brown study, thinking with no
himself, ‘What a pity it is that anything should tread here!’ Then he
to ask the bride who it was she had brought with her, that was thus left
‘but now we will see if you are able to carry anything properly.’ He
went into the ball-room in it; and the king danced with her again, and
were alone in the wood together, the huntsman looked so sorrowful that

and thoughtful; so that care and sorrow were written upon his face. The
thought: ‘He will love me more than old Dame Gothel does’; and she said
Ashputtel, not knowing where to hide herself, jumped up into it without
good man knew not what to say or think at such an odd thing happening.
of making an exchange?’ said the horseman. ‘I will give you my horse,
‘Comrade, shall we have a game of cards?’ ‘Why not?’ he replied, ‘but
the robbers had left, with as much eagerness as if they had not expected
of her wrongs to her father, and begged him to help her to get rid of
me.’
  Gold and silver over me!’
dead, and the kingdom will fall to me if I find the water.’ The king was
eyes, however, the bed began to move of its own accord, and went over
‘Well, what would she have now?’ said the fish. ‘Alas!’ said the poor
as his bride by his side on his horse, and rode away with her.
but let us have no more crying; I see you are not fit for this sort of
horse, with his heavy hoofs, has been treading down my people without
dark, he went to the tower and cried:
  Who is nibbling at my little house?’
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
said the mother, ‘if only someone would come who would have her.’ At

said the youth. ‘Now it is your turn to die.’ Then he seized an iron bar
  Where the seven dwarfs their dwelling have made,
some of the rampion, which is in the garden behind our house, I shall

berries, which grew on the ground. And as they were so weary that their
other lads, whose maidens had been forced to sing in the old fairy’s

and were very hungry, for they had nothing to eat but two or three
and asked her if she would sell the brood. ‘Not for gold or silver, but
  She laid her kerchief over me,
2. HOW CHANTICLEER AND PARTLET WENT TO VISIT MR KORBES
could not find it. ‘Have you looked behind the large cask?’ said one of
as round as a tub,’ said she. The next was too tall: ‘What a maypole!’
and found it done in the morning, as before; and so it went on for some
eyes. Then he wandered quite blind about the forest, ate nothing but
that in this also the tailor kept the upper hand.
feathers flew about like so many snowflakes. The old woman was as good
longed to taste it, and said, ‘Dear countryman, let us just taste it.’

ending with a little door. In the door there was a golden key, and when
out a sack of pearls which lay in the rushes, and without another word
had caught itself in the thicket. It had to go into his pocket with the
It came to pass that the master one day said to her: ‘Gretel, there is a
should go away again they should pursue him, and if he would not come
long deserved death; tonight when she is asleep I will come and cut her
hand, and led him through an underground passage, but he did not forget
dream, and yet I am just as tired as if I really had done everything.’
not you manage to keep your eyes open? Next year one of us will take
gold; and afterwards to a third, where the leaves were all glittering
but the real reason was, that he wanted to see more of the beautiful
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
the castle, he found it closed, but he gave it a blow with his stick,
she replied, ‘the way is so long, and what shall I do in a strange land
Soon after this the sexton came to the house on a visit, and the father
tied to a rope, and did not know what to do.
two.’

witch was miserably burnt to death.
Then they came to another grove of trees, where all the leaves were of
she was promised to him. His first betrothed heard of this, and fretted
The king looked at him, and as the youth pleased him, he said: ‘You may
door opened with difficulty, and the boy pinched his fingers. When it

to get into the circle if he could. Then at last, after a long talk,

to know.’ She ran to the door of her own house, but it was shut; then
weep?’ ‘Come,’ said Hans, ‘more understanding than that is not needed
you any longer, for although I am so happy here, I must return to my own
1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
middle of the heavens there was a little piece of blue sky, but towards
be at hand immediately, if I summon you.’ ‘Nothing more is needed than
scent of spice in the air!’
At last the third also came with the like intent, and the others
he returned next day she had not done it, and said: ‘Why should I shed
 ‘Rapunzel, Rapunzel,


club, and how the devil had sat upon the top of the house and cried out,
fast as you can.’
tricks with their clumsy guest. They tugged his hair with their hands,
the dark gate with our flock of geese, she cries and talks with the head
doors when the horse began to eat, and the bird to sing, and the princess
big for the little tailor; he did not lie down in it, but crept into
He was old, however, and had a long white beard. ‘You wretch,’ cried he,
dance, he said as before, ‘This lady is dancing with me.’
time!’ She ran to the window, to see if the master was not coming with
So saying he set out and travelled till he came to a hill, where three
was held fast.
up at such a rate!’ Away ran the husband upstairs, and saw thousands of
as she was peeling them, she cut her finger, and the blood fell on the
surely it can nowhere be so safe if I take it with me.’ So she took

sit down and eat. ‘Yes, but my wife, Grete, too,’ said he, and he seated

little dwarf said, ‘Let the poor things enjoy themselves, I will not
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
the willow-wren. ‘IF that’s the case,’ said the bear, ‘I should very
are you going?’ And Chanticleer replied,

the little man, and dashed his right foot in a rage so deep into the


huntsmen summoned, they went through the ante-chamber, and never once
She was, moreover, very shrewd and clever; and the miller was so proud
was dropping asleep, morning broke, and the sun rose. ‘Ha!’ thought she,
As they crossed the heath again on their way home they surprised the
voice:
The dogs come and devour the bacon. When he gets home, he has the rope

looked at the boy, and said: ‘What has happened to the well?’ ‘Nothing
she was sitting playing with her baby, and put her in mind of it. Then
and declared that the mass had been said. Then they came and rolled the
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with


and just as Little Red-Cap entered the wood, a wolf met her. Red-Cap

if she was going to beat the boy.
promise, and gave his daughter and the half of his kingdom. Had he known
your home. I will also give thee this nut,’ continued the night-wind.
about in a shepherd’s frock!’ At this the son was vexed; and forgetting
his daughter! Out of so great a sin no good can come.’ And his daughter
sent far and wide, to seek for a bride as beautiful as the late queen.
a little on one side, and the starry dress sparkled underneath it.
THE FOX AND THE HORSE
so tired that his limbs seemed hardly able to support him, and he could
  Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,

she went with her two daughters to the ball.
  With her five gold rings at the door she knocks:
poor simpleton, who did all the hard work, while the other two stayed

shut and locked up; but every morning their shoes were found to be quite
return, till at last the second son said, ‘Father, I will go in search
them into his service. The king looked at her and did not know her, but
before the king, and he asked him who had cooked the soup. ‘I did,’

the wife, and she gave her a beautiful apple out of the chest; the chest

them together so quickly that the boat was soon ready, and they then
flew out to meet him. He had not flown far, however, when he came across
soothe her, and she at last seemed to be appeased; but she was not so in
brother.’ Then he gave him gold and lands and flocks, and made him so
‘And you, my love,’ said the bridegroom, turning to her, ‘is there no
no,’ replied the boy, ‘the wild ones have more scent, and will please
wait for you,’ said the girl, ‘and that no one may recognize me, I will

bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion (rapunzel), and it

on the chimney.’ Hansel, however little by little, threw all the crumbs
better next time.’
emperor.’ ‘Ah!’ said the man, as he gazed upon her, ‘what a fine thing
and ask her for a silken cord to draw up the water.’ Chanticleer ran to
bring him into great peril. So he went out and took the maiden aside,
brother, who is rich, and your majesty knows him well, and all the world
it was darker and people had begun to light up their houses, and then
carried home.
the Tree of Life stood, but he set out, and would have gone on for ever,
them all turned into ravens. Scarcely had he spoken these words when he

the sea great black waves, swelling up like mountains with crowns of
first looked carefully about her to see if anyone was watching her, she
lady by her side looking about them. Now the old woman was a witch, and
length the cook took him into his service, and said he might carry wood
youth also wanted to play and said: ‘Listen you, can I join you?’ ‘Yes,
sickness leave him, and was as strong and well as in his younger days.
the cat, but had been constantly throwing one of the white pebble-stones
said, ‘I will not hurt you, thou pretty child.’ So he left her by
However, he would enter into no parley with them, but only asked them
die, unless he should bring the king the golden horse which could run as
said to the king: ‘You think you have twelve huntsmen?’ ‘Yes,’ said the
everybody laughed and jeered at her; and she was so abashed, that she
and said, ‘I am big enough; I will lay myself across the stream, and you
fur mantle over it, and in her haste did not blacken herself all over

on the ninth day, early in the morning, he found the beautiful purple
Gretel,’ she cried to the girl, ‘stir yourself, and bring some water.
and her cap fell from her head.
themselves above everyone else, and are too proud to ask or take advice.
He rode on, and after a while it seemed to him that he heard a voice in
then?’ asked he. ‘Ah, dear Hans,’ said Elsie, ‘if we marry each other
shoulders, and said it all in his ear.
happened. ‘My stars!’ said she, ‘what shall I do to keep Frederick from
  Are all comb’d and curl’d!
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
friend! You have devoured all when you were standing godmother. First
bring me my ball, I will do all you ask.’ Then the frog put his head
into the house that I asked her why she was doing that, and she said

crying: ‘Oh, what helpless chicks we are! We must shift for ourselves,

So they went to the mountains; and as it was a lovely day, they stayed
Jorindel could not move; he stood fixed as a stone, and could neither
He led him into the king’s cellar, and the man bent over the huge
agreed to follow his trade, and he soon showed himself so clever, that
me all the ill I have done you; my mother forced me to it, it was
danger? Because I am beginning to grow old, and had rather lie at my
She mumbled something to herself, seized the nightingale, and went away

to the fairy’s castle.’ It was a beautiful evening; the last rays of the

medicine; thirdly, have a sign painted for yourself with the words: “I
striking a quarter to twelve. Then he sprang from the couch dreadfully
do?’ asked the little man. ‘Late at night, when the king’s daughter is
only made sport of them.
Presently the father came home and sat down to his dinner; he asked,

girl seemed quite dead. So they laid her down upon a bier, and all seven
large piece of gold, and they paid the price. ‘Where would you like to
scullion-girl, and to have boots and shoes thrown at my head.’ ‘But how
in came buyers, who paid him handsomely for his goods, so that he bought
prince a sleeping draught, that he might not hear or see her. When
have thought you would have been so silly,’ said he, ‘as to put an

you are, so take care and let no one in.’
wood, and in the castle lived an old fairy. Now this fairy could take
she put her finger to her lips and said: ‘Hush! hush! go away as quickly
think of it I cannot help being sorrowful, for who can reach it? only
young maidens were found who exactly resembled his daughter in face,
The carter seeing that he had thus lost all that he had, went down

you will pass the night down there in the old tower, go thither; but I
and are wise enough to seek for advice, I will tell you how and where to
times?’ The fox, full of all kinds of arrogance, looked at the cat from
have had such treatment from thee?’ Then he went out and sent away the
lady. Then he went into the house, and was welcomed kindly; and it was
the hill. Catherine looked, but could not see where it had gone; so she
was in it, neither did anyone know, for the king never took off the
to them, and at length they saw from afar their father’s house. Then

to rest a while. Now she had a golden ball in her hand, which was her
any mischief; so she stood before the old woman; but she set to work
The cat said:
‘Well, he likes being there, and he told me he should be away quite six
loose and ran away, and was no longer the bride of Hans.
the food is like.’

which he went with ease, and they shut in after him as thick as ever.
But the poor young ravens lay upon the ground, flapping their wings, and
playthings for his children. On the third day things went just the
the chamberlain why the wind had whistled so in the night. And the
he took, said to him, he could not be what he said he was, and must go

 ‘Sweep me the room as clean as you can,
the sides were so slippery that every time he attempted to climb he
 ‘Thou, lady, art loveliest here, I ween;
an hour to cross, he began to be so hot and parched that his tongue

and said: ‘Your majesty, we live joyously here, but how is the queen
and said: ‘Grete, that is the second.’ This servant was equally alarmed,
the high road, there to spin until she made her fingers bleed. Now it
she let down her hair that glittered in the sun. And then he heard her
nothing to eat.’ ‘If that be all,’ answered the sparrow, ‘come with me
entrance to the forest she found the path strewed with ashes, and these
chicken.’ Thereupon he took the dog with the golden collar, and said:



long been wishing to be mayor, so he cried with all his might: ‘No, I


laid hold of me, and was going to drown me; and though I have been lucky
and the princess; and the fox came and said to him, ‘We will have all
fourth was too pale, and she called him ‘Wallface.’ The fifth was too
speech, and said, ‘Pray get down, and fetch me some water to drink in
three times as much as before. If he was to have any rest, her husband
he had gone away, she had a little hind brought to her, and ordered her
upon us if you go.’ However, he gave her no rest till she agreed. At his
at one shot struck all the five eggs as his father wished.
cat, modestly. ‘What art is that?’ asked the fox. ‘When the hounds are
and when she saw the old man coming, she said to the boy: ‘Lie down in
entreaty of the dwarf had gone outside the gate, was soon brought back,
could not stay there all day waiting for them.

out he had emptied all the barrels. Then Dummling asked once more
‘Now, then,’ thought the princess, ‘at last he is gone, and I shall be
of advice. Fill your pocket full of peas, and make a small hole in the
pouring over her.
and said, ‘O that our little sister would but come! then we should be
gave him the coffin; but the moment he lifted it up to carry it home
hold of the top of the tree where the ripest fruit was hanging, bent it
she tore open her dress; and all the while little Marleen sat in the
she saw the old woman striding towards her, changed, with her magic
found out where he really was; and was forced to have all his wits about
lay sick unto death, and desired to see him once again before his end.
followed him. When they went into the cave, other giants were sitting
sight. He lay down and quietly fell asleep. Next morning the king came
princess, as if it was one that he had once heard; and he asked the
their bed. He got up and looked quite kindly at them, but said nothing
fine things, and was fond enough of telling the whole story, he always
Then the peasants were vexed that the small peasant should have thus
he was willing to undertake the task.


When the time came, the father and son went out together to the place
the salad ready, was going to carry it up; but on the way she too felt a
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
begged for a night’s lodging. ‘Yes,’ said the lord of the castle, ‘if

that,’ said he, and stood still and waited until the animal was quite
huntsman came nearer and looked at the lady, and said to himself, ‘I
your people gave me when they followed me. But I am likewise the knight
bird took its flight to a dark wood and remained there for a long time,
snoring. As soon as the girl was assured of this, she came from behind
About a month afterwards he went upstairs into a lumber-room to look
to let her go. ‘You, Ashputtel!’ said she; ‘you who have nothing to
on each side as they passed. ‘Ah, see now,’ said she, ‘how they have

of the castle, where he left him, saying, ‘You will be able to walk the
old cook scolded and said: ‘You simpletons, you should have cut the
stump of a tree, and held his leathern cap to milk into; but not a drop
run home and fetch scissors, and a needle and thread, and the goat cut
morning! good morning to thee, my friend!’ The student looked about
and as she was dressing herself in fine rich clothes, she looked in the
will let you pass; then hasten on to the well, and take some of the
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
growing; so that it might have been called the prince of turnips for

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
on his little coat, opened the door below, and crept outside. The moon
The boy ran thither and said: ‘Give me my ball out.’ ‘Not till you have
could, and left all the gold. So when Frederick and Catherine came down,
to rake the ashes, the cook said, ‘Let that alone till the morning, and
fell back again. When he saw that it was impossible to reach her, he was
I might be a king.’ ‘Well,’ said the old dame, ‘that is no very hard
you may sleep a little; we are going into the forest to cut wood, and in
to feed the cows; and going straight to the hay-loft, carried away
When she heard this she turned pale with rage and envy, and called to
streets with the rapidity of lightning,’ said she, ‘and taken into a
The old king was still very angry with his youngest son, and thought
One sprang under the table, the second into the bed, the third into the
prevent the sun rising.’ At this thought she was very angry, and wakened
had taken it up and opened it, there lay the gold ring in the shell.
white meal over my feet for me.’ The miller thought to himself: ‘The
give you one’; so he opened his bag and gave them the bad. Then the
know you are there, so you had better come out!’ Then the fellow in the
should thus be set adrift, and left to the bad or good luck of wind and
thirdly, I should like that everyone should grant what I ask.’ The dwarf
salad on the bed.’ ‘That would be a fine thing!’ cried the miller, and
answered the cook. But the king said, ‘That is not true; it was better
Hans took out his pocket-handkerchief, put the piece of silver into it,
till thou art a wiser man than thou wert.’
  Haste ye, haste ye!--pick, pick, pick!’
maid’s shabby ones.
from the parlour:
take care, I cannot help you, I will not be burnt with you,’ and he hung
  My father grieved when I was gone;
bigger and bigger stitches. In the meantime the smell of the sweet jam

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
and too delicate for a waiting-maid, he went up into the royal chamber
to him, as he got upon the bank, ‘Your brothers have set watch to kill
little doves put their heads down and set to work, pick, pick, pick; and
that the helmet fell from the youth’s head, and they could see that he


whole stomach, with Tom in it, at one gulp, and ran away.
villages, and houses.’ So he fetched his map, and looked for the castle,
have, and said to himself, ‘Why should I work hard, and live here on bad
‘Princess, why do you weep so bitterly?’ ‘Alas!’ said she, ‘what can you

the other took his son out of the horse’s ear, and put him down upon a
was to be had. Who would have thought that this cow, which was to bring


  She laid her kerchief over me,


have not yet paid me a visit, although we have been betrothed for some



were overcome by a great dread, and ran as if the wild huntsman were
The prince begged so hard for his brothers, that the dwarf at last set
and said: ‘Where are the boy’s heart and tongue?’ The girl reached the
But the dwarf held them back, and said, ‘Let the pretty insects enjoy
satisfy your hunger.’ ‘If that is so,’ replied the giant, ‘I will leave
managed to get Partlet out of it; but the fox and the other mourners,

fare any longer? I can now travel into the wide world, and make myself
she took hold of him, and said, ‘Listen, my friend, to what I am going
came two turtle-doves; and after them came all the little birds under
courtyard, and while he was playing, his golden ball fell into the cage.
everywhere; and seeing no one, and not knowing where the voice came
and sat down once more to weep; but the dwarf soon opened the door, and
night, and Hansel comforted his little sister and said: ‘Just wait,
has younger legs than I have.’ Then she rolled the other cheese after
was cooking until she was satisfied, and said: ‘The cook must know what

Then they came to a great city. ‘Whose is this noble city?’ said she.
travelled two days without hearing of any other names; but yesterday, as

shall pass over upon me.’ So he laid himself down; but they managed
corner and wept, and the plate on her knees was wet with her tears.
Then all three were delighted. The huntsman drew off the wolf’s skin and
soup. Whilst the cook was above stairs, she got the golden necklace and
warming myself,’ cried the second drop of blood. She went into the
else came to ask her to dance, he said, ‘This lady is dancing with me.’

she drank her cup of broth and when she was fully satisfied, she once
drew lots, and it fell to the sausage to bring in the wood, to the mouse
which was the youngest. Thus the spell was broken, and all who had been
fell asleep too; and the horses slept in the stables, and the dogs in
he could not go out by the same way he came in.
good?’ ‘I bring nothing. I want to have something given to me.’ Gretel
themselves before it, and Chanticleer drove them. On the way they
collaborated in the creation of a German dictionary, not completed until
easy,’ said the wolf, ‘I will give you some good advice. Your master,
He picked up the wood, and flew sadly home, and told the mouse all he
five or six young ones lying there. ‘Is that the royal palace?’ cried
as if he were stone dead. Mrs Fox went up to her room, shut herself in,
  She laid her kerchief over me,
the fire, that they might roast. The fowls began to turn brown, and were
the cold and the bad weather.’ As soon as day dawned the two children
maps as soon as he had eaten and appeased his hunger. Accordingly, when
girl if she had not just then been standing in a corner, and heard
knows it; he must also know who has the money!’

again went and asked for his ball; the wild man said: ‘Open my door,’
like to see her.’ The son said: ‘Most gracious father, I will show her
‘Well, what does she want now?’ said the fish. ‘Ah!’ said the man,
doing?’ ‘See,’ said she, ‘I have bought all these with your yellow


wedding.
that. However, I will not be hard upon you, as you are in trouble.’ Then
heart when he had made up his mind not to kill her but to leave her to
wood, you cannot unlock the castle that stands on the glass-mountain,
Then she asked if he required any huntsmen, and if he would take all of
saw mist and flame and fire rising from the spot, and when these had
neck and kissed him. Joy and gladness burst forth throughout the castle,
took a deep draught.
wisdom dangling in the air. ‘How is it with thee, friend?’ said he,

his pocket. And now loaded with chains, he was standing at the window of
And then her wicked heart was glad, and as happy as such a heart could
parted; and now I am very glad to come home and get fresh air again.’
bride stood by. And the young king rejoiced when he saw her beauty, and
in rags about him, and he himself was all scratched and wounded, so that
he appeared to be very rich and the miller could see nothing in him with

  Princess! the shoe was made for you!
kindly to him, ‘My son, will you have an apple?’ but she gave him a
and away they drove. Soon afterwards a cat met them, and said, ‘Where
but she wept still more and more, and fell at his feet, till at last
drawing the water, and so they were in such a hurry that all let their
So she cut it off, ate it, and enjoyed it, and when she had done, she

prince was only to be seen as soon as evening came, and then he held his
have my daughter for wife.’
Snow-white lit the fire and hung the kettle on the hob. The kettle
pot to see that the food was properly cooked, and when it was near
king’s own heart, and he soon died. His son married the beautiful maiden
and then conveyed to him this proposal. ‘For this very reason have
manage to shudder,’ said he. ‘I shall never learn it here as long as I
A poor woodman sat in his cottage one night, smoking his pipe by the
still bent down more and more while he was doing so, and trying to look
the house, and has brought with her all the birds in the world, I am
forgotten themselves over some game of play’; and when he had waited

king, and begged that he might go in search of the Water of Life, as
the room, amongst the broken glass, with a most hideous clatter! The
sugar, the next some sweet syrup, and the youngest a spoonful of honey;
Miss Cat went downstairs and sent the wooer away. Soon afterwards there
RAPUNZEL
the cottage was a garden wherein stood two rose-trees, one of which bore
where Elsie is!’ The woman went down, and found all three in the midst
The cook heard this quite plain, so she sprang out of bed, and ran to
Scarcely were they up, than who should come by but the very rogues they
The grandmother lived out in the wood, half a league from the village,
it. After he had wandered through three kingdoms, he came one evening to
saw that, he could no longer prevent him from having his daughter. The
with four dogs. The cat sprang nimbly up a tree, and sat down at the top
children, before we will do that.’ Then the willow-wren flew to the
seat in the carriage, and they all drove away together. When they came
town to buy needles and thread, and laces and ribbons. The road led them
you.’

Long, long ago, some two thousand years or so, there lived a rich
service.’ He was therefore honourably received, and a special dwelling
  Who is fairest, tell me, who?’
Hans had been at home for a long time, but Elsie did not come; then said
misfortune! He has thrown my husband down the steps so that he broke his
themselves in a corner of the room, behind a curtain that was hung up
then he looked up and the last one had left off work.


so clever, you shall sit by me.’ He replied: ‘Lord King, your majesty

work, so I have been to the king’s palace, and asked if they did not
Now the king felt great joy at this, and commanded that his entire
for my household, as you are such a clever Elsie, I will have you,’ and
then, make haste and throw them down, if you will.’ Then away rattled
kill his brother.
the poor mouse’s lips; scarcely had she spoken it before the cat sprang
holes. The young willow-wrens, however, continued to cry and scream, and
One day, as they were riding along by a brook, the princess began to
gave him the ship which could sail on land and water, and when the king
here and there through the trees, and pretty flowers growing everywhere,
healing of the sick; the virtues of all simples, of birds, and of
forgotten all that I have done for him so many years, and because I
nuts that they could not walk, or whether they were lazy and would not,
rode through a green copse, a hazel twig brushed against him, and almost
waggoner who was striding behind him heard this and asked: ‘Who are
horse, he will bring out the bird; but you must sit still, and say that
pulling off his red coat, he became a gardener, and dug his ground well,
be renamed.
and the cow good morning, and away he rode.
trees.
he entered it he heard a sound of screaming as if a little child were
When the day dawned, therefore, the boy put his fifty talers into his
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
him with his foot, and said, ‘What worm is this that lies here curled
She sought for him about the castle, but could find him nowhere.
he did not linger an instant, but galloped off with it. The king grew
dead: the cloak will fall too; take it, it is a wishing-cloak, and when
peasant did everything that he had been told to do. When he had doctored
be anything to a man who has struck down seven at one blow? I leapt over
When the queen heard this she jumped for joy, and as soon as her little
and she wept no more. And now the juniper-tree began to move, and the
I go home.’ Then the servant was greatly frightened, and said, ‘It may
will get in, you will be mayor.’ The shepherd was willing, and got in,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
the pigeons fast asleep, with their heads under their wings. And when he
The next morning she asked the way she was to go, and took leave of her
Then the cook sent three servants after them, who were to run and
and it was not long before she overtook them. The girl, however, when
shut in all round. He next tried to get off his horse and make his way
thought he was in joke, and came one night to get a dainty morsel. But
task; but at last, just as he had made room to get his head out, fresh
a letter near him, in which, after giving him particulars of the food
table covered with all sorts of good things: and when they had eaten and
scattered his by the way. Then they fell asleep and evening passed, but
be able to get there?’ asked the man. ‘I have two hours to spare,’ said
beautiful form were seen, and she could no longer hide herself: so she
In the morning when he awoke, he began to search over hill and dale for
unknown man will show himself.’ When the feast was announced, the youth
and feet; screaming, fighting, and tugging at each other as if
house is a large tan-heap, and on that you must stand and watch for me.
and thousands of ants, and the grateful creatures had by great industry
should dig all round my garden for me, tomorrow.’ The soldier consented,
children, and beg their pardon, or else every rib of your body shall
which flowed through the garden, and had a whole bucketful of gudgeons
no bridge or foot-plank, they did not know how they were to get over
it down just upon the great jug full of beer, and upset it; and thus
deserve; are you satisfied now!’
reckoning, and gave him nothing for his trouble but their apish tricks.

perhaps be only a cat or a dog.’ And at last the man yielded with a
what could he do? He could not speak, he could not move from the spot
lie,’ said the queen, and went her way. But by good luck the dwarfs
beginning; and when he left his master, he gave him a needle, and said,
way, and said, ‘Thou must let the sack of wisdom descend, by untying
know he has fallen asleep.’ When she entered the garden, there she found
one stroke!’ ‘What, the town!’ he continued, ‘the whole world shall hear
off, but it was hard work! They tore up trees in their sore need, and
nor pears, nor any kind of fruits, nothing but vegetables.’ At last he
wondered that no one was there. The boar, however, had not quite hidden
  And took my bones that they might lie
their hair whistled in the wind.
not long before the dog fell in with some game on the way, and wanted to

cheese. Now he took to the road boldly, and as he was light and nimble,

ware, and she sat herself down with it in the corner of the market; but
the hut burnt a fire; and round about the fire a funny little dwarf was
on the third night the soldier carried away one of the golden cups as a
swore he would have his revenge. So the next morning the wolf sent the
anvil. The old man placed himself near and wanted to look on, and his
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
casket--open it when thy hour of need comes.’
When the witch and the young lady heard of his beautiful salad, they
the hundred florins.
the threatened evil; so he ordered that all the spindles in the kingdom
 ‘She is sitting in her room,
then into the pantry, and there you will find cakes, ham, beef, cold
when he got up in the morning the work was done ready to his hand. Soon
duck, get on as fast as you can.’ And away they went at a pretty good
where the money was, but did not say who had stolen it, and received
before him, and said: ‘Lord, what are your commands?’ ‘What my commands
world.’
go forth and learn how to shudder, and then I shall, at any rate,
The king took the gift very graciously, and said he knew not what to
misfortune which lay before her. Those upstairs waited for the drink,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
cannot folks, with their clumsy beasts, keep off our bodies? That stupid
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
drink, but you must not take of either; if you do, you will fall into
much for only a turnip, what must his present be worth?
bigger, but kept just the same size as he had been when he was born.
I was sitting, or I should have had to sprint on to another like a


seven of us will fall at every blow; not one of us can stand against
you seem merry enough, but I am hungry and thirsty; do pray give me
said that the evil wish must be fulfilled, but that she could soften its
the two eldest said to themselves, ‘Our brother has got the water which
grew dark in the evening, and then drove them homewards.
asleep under the tree with the child, and a bird of prey had seen it in

gone with them to the ball; and at last she begged her mother very hard
the cage with the flower, and Jorinda stood before him, and threw her
his chamber, and she sat herself down at his feet, and said: ‘I have
she had done this, he ordered her to come to his chair, and then he
going to serve up, off the dish, and has run away with them!’ ‘That’s a


‘I have been playing at nine-pins,’ he answered, ‘and have lost a couple
one must be of gold, like the sun; another must be of shining silver,
trouble in carrying such a heavy load about with you.’ ‘With all my
night came on, they went into a wood to sleep. The ass and the dog laid

boar to challenge Sultan to come into the wood to fight the matter. Now
The next day the second brother undertook the task; but he succeeded no
‘If you will only listen,’ said the fox, ‘it can be done. When you come
ring, he looked at it, and knew that it was his father’s and mother’s,
and told them all that had happened to him; how he had found the Water
not care for the man as a girl ought to care for her betrothed husband.
heard how meek and patient she had been; and without saying anything to
The bridegroom, who during this recital had grown deadly pale, up and
queen.’ ‘That may never be,’ thought the miller’s daughter: and as she
but none was to be found. He rode home, but the singing had so deeply

and the cloak, and when he had put this round him he was no longer
‘The better to eat you with!’
grandmother, another wolf spoke to her, and tried to entice her from the
is the bacon, Hans?’ ‘I tied it to a rope, brought it home, dogs took
snow. ‘Ah,’ sighed the woman heavily, ‘if I had but a child, as red as
all the ten sacks standing side by side, quite full, and not a single
cried, ‘Carter! it shall cost thee thy life!’ Then he became mad and
at the spinning-wheels.’ And next morning when the king had his twelve
much the faster. The world may very likely not always think of them as

was given; and they lived happily together all their lives long.
sold him for gold to a little, ugly-looking, black dwarf, and that the
 ‘No care and no sorrow,
  Till the silvery locks
himself, and had promised to be good friends again with old Sultan.
The children tried very hard, but they could not pull the beard out, it
delighted with the sight and picked up the finest. But the old witch
they were dancing: so he seized her hand, and kept fast hold of it, and

bridle.’ ‘Never mind that, father,’ said Tom; ‘if my mother will only
‘No, thank you, Mrs Cat,’ answered the wolf. ‘Is Mrs Fox not at home?’

trouble for nothing, and said, ‘We wish you a very good morning, and a

Some days after, the miller came to him and told him that the old ass
fate have fallen to my lot?’ said the straw. ‘The old woman has
and that if she sprinkled this over the floor it would suck up the ale
quite healthy and strong, but was not much bigger than my thumb. So

newly-built bridge. But when she had reached the middle, and heard the
he heard the order, and said to Cat-skin, ‘You must have let a hair fall
her?’ ‘I took her nothing.’ ‘What did Gretel give you?’ ‘She gave me
THE STRAW, THE COAL, AND THE BEAN

be put to death. The prince knew nothing of what was going on, till one
went Curdken after it, while the girl went on combing and curling her
here you will get rid of your goods.’ The woman came up the three steps
dwarf, who had emptied out his bag of precious stones in a clean spot,
her, ‘or I shall starve.’ ‘Oho!’ she answered, ‘who gives anything to a
opened the sack, and set him free. ‘Now then,’ cried he, ‘let me ascend
made great havoc in the forest, and the huntsmen should give him their
leave a track in the streets.’ But unseen by the king, the manikin was
  Linger not in this murderers’ lair.’
a burning coal from the fire leapt down to the two. Then the straw
horsemen would not believe him, and rode into the forest; there they
speak, but seeing nobody, and yet being quite sure it was the same voice
deep pool, could go no farther, and a naked arm stretched itself out of
also, but scarcely able to breathe. Red-Cap, however, quickly fetched


laid it on the dead man’s face, but he remained cold. Then he took him
me some water in my golden cup out of yonder brook, for I want to
danced and jumped about in them. ‘I was so miserable,’ she said, ‘when I
all the treasures which I possess, shall be your property.’
promised, for you alone can save me. This night twelve men will come:
again.’
When they came to the stairs, the soldier ran on before the princesses,
the tower and turned round, and was just going to take hold of the bell
peacefully about him. The little tailor went bravely up, spoke to him,
kingdom, which is our right’; so they were full of envy and revenge, and
you share it without charge with others.
silver dress for her, and slippers of spangled silk; and she put them
man might not see it. But he said: ‘You have dipped your finger into
grew big and had to draw beer, and the pick-axe fell down. Then said the
Hans with a piece of bacon. ‘Goodbye, Gretel.’ ‘Goodbye, Hans.’


when she fell down dead upon the ground. ‘This time nothing will save

room, and Hansel threw one handful after another out of his pocket to
him, and take him on board a ship which shall carry him into the wide
said it was the will of Heaven, and that her birth was only the innocent
precious stones. Wert thou but once here, my friend, though wouldst feel
greatest haste, so that he was not aware of anything and never once
him again, for perhaps he will be angry; we ought to be easy with this
was caught. ‘Now, I have got the bird,’ said the tailor, and came out
make me sole heir to his kingdom.’
of cake and a bottle of wine; take them to your grandmother, she is ill
to fetch the queen and bring her to the royal table. But when she was


lord.’ They went and announced him to the king, and gave it as their
She remembered nothing more until she awoke and found herself in a

straight on, and in the evening you will arrive at a castle. At twelve
was seized with impatience and would not wait any longer. ‘Now, then,

and when he smelt the wine, he was unable to resist the temptation, and

to eat and drink, for he was very hungry; and then they fetched new

certainly did fall out of her pocket, but they made no track, for the
standing beside him when he said that, and heard all. At night when


Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
wrapped herself up in the mantle made of all sorts of fur, and besmeared
could wait no longer. But she had scarcely put the piece into her mouth,
stairs, and cried again: ‘Where are you?’ ‘Here in the kitchen, I am
of her more and more, and made her behave very unkindly to the boy. She
rose-bush in two, and have broken off the rose and brought it home with
On the third day, he received from Iron Hans a suit of black armour and
and the hare bid each other good night, I saw a little hut; and before
of the cook, in which he stood immediately, with his white apron,

flowers and herbs. It was, however, surrounded by a high wall, and no
his eyes closed of their own accord, and he fell into such a deep sleep,
 ‘Shake, shake, hazel-tree,
chicken, roast pig, apple-dumplings, and everything that your heart can

free; if, however, you still wish to do so, come to the golden castle
changed herself into a flower, and thought: ‘Someone will surely come
  I thought ‘twas six kids,
and they were all sitting together crying, and he heard the reason, and
a lucky thing,’ said he, ‘that they did not tear up the tree on which
princesses will bring to you in the evening; and as soon as she leaves
astonished to see, instead of the frog, a handsome prince, gazing on her
said, ‘What a heavy dew there is!’
all concealed and secret things. It came to pass that one evening he
come back and his thirst grew ever greater, he said: ‘I must go into the
whatsoever you will.’ She thought for a moment and said: ‘Dear father,
not imagine that I will spare your life.’ Then the soldier pulled out
barrel towards the water. When the barrel began to roll, the shepherd
Meanwhile the wolf ran straight to the grandmother’s house and knocked
Although the little girl was very pretty, she was so weak and small that
the gardener at first would not let him, for fear some harm should come
‘But we must make a provision for winter, or else we shall suffer
‘Alas! dear sir,’ said she, ‘yonder lies the granite rock where all the
to put it. At length, after much consideration, the cat said: ‘I know no
rejoicing; and he said to the four brothers, ‘One of you shall marry
drew the carriage into the coach-house, Chanticleer and Partlet flew
him, but that deer had never taken up their quarters in any part of the
cried: ‘I am quite willing to be mayor.’ They believed no otherwise than

behave thus. ‘Nothing better,’ said this false bride, ‘than that she
as if an evil spirit entered into her, for she snatched the apple out
away with the kitchen-maid!’ Then they took away her fine clothes, and
was followed, and a pot of fat was bought, but they did not know where

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread


was stupid, and could learn nothing. Then said the father: ‘Hark you,
matter short by ordering him off to the gallows.
‘At this moment, none,’ answered the soldier; ‘you can return home, only

all the time and listened), she ran forward, and in an instant all
they were shocked, and said, ‘Heaven forbid that a father should marry
too; sing it again.’

and burning, and no one could approach them without putting himself in
 ‘Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,
Then the king’s son left the forest, and walked by beaten and unbeaten
town shall know of this!’ And the little tailor hastened to cut himself
beginning of this work.
me come safe home again.’
plates and dishes. Then she set them all about the house for a show:
beer, then the pick-axe will fall on his head and kill him.’ Then she
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
might know him. ‘Now you shall be paid for your roguery,’ said he; and
hear that noise? That never happened before.’ But the eldest said, ‘It
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
upon a beam, the cat sat down in the fireplace, the duck got into
but he stipulated that Clever Elsie should be really smart. ‘Oh,’ said
broomstick in her hand: and presently up she came into the dining-hall.
heard this rejoiced, and the lord of the castle said he would adopt him
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
It was not long before someone knocked at the house-door and called:
thought his workshop was too small for his valour. Before he went away,
soon overtook him, and carried the poor little thing back to his master
Then the fisherman went home, and found Ilsabill sitting on a throne
corner came black cats and black dogs with red-hot chains, and more
The little man crawled about in the hay-loft, and at last found a snug
Now the white snake was an enchanted princess; and she was very glad
a thing to eat or drink.
way; if, therefore, thou dost forget to throw down the nut, he will let
no one in the world can alter that.’ He sent a messenger to the other
When they were half-way across Lily let the nut fall into the water,
in the world were, only Snow-white was more quiet and gentle than
and water, and rake the cinders together. Once when it so happened that

Hans went out to see what she had cut, but nothing was cut, and she
rose to where the flies were sitting in great numbers, and they were
wear, no clothes at all, and who cannot even dance--you want to go to
leg. Take the good-for-nothing fellow out of our house.’ The father was
  Open the door to thy true love here!
up, Gretel, the guest is coming directly after me!’ ‘Yes, sir, I will
The miser began to tell his tale, and said he had been robbed of
But she was mistaken; for when night came again she heard the same
done quite as you seem to think,’ said the wolf; ‘you must wait until
he screamed out: ‘Is that civil, you toadstool, to disfigure a man’s
saw the king’s daughter he was so overcome by her great beauty that he
father they took him away with them.
sure she cannot be the bride.’ The prince told him to send her. But the
little glass she drank a small drop; but she let the ring that she had
of them was gone. The king became very angry at this, and ordered the
to feed our poor children, when we no longer have anything even for
can you help me? Pray be kind, and aid me if you can!’ ‘Do you know
to eat again for a month. As soon as they had satisfied themselves, they
and nearly dead on the bank. Then the queen took pity on the little
to her master: ‘If the guest does not come, I must take the fowls away

clumsy creatures!’ Then he took up a sack full of precious stones, and
cook and eat you.”’

eldest son to watch; but about twelve o’clock he fell asleep, and in
ring, a golden necklace, and a golden brooch, and packed the three

Then he made the best of his way off, while the nurse laughed and the
to help us.’ And when the old folks had fallen asleep, he got up, put
have got upon Falada again, the maid said, ‘I shall ride upon Falada,
young lady, than to let either the dragon or one of the craftsmen have
into the kitchen and see.’ And as he went he saw two asses in the court
the faithful maiden held her wedding with her sweetheart Roland, and
should he find out which was his Jorinda? While he was thinking what to
the miller was to give for the fifth prophecy, until they agreed on

in their own forms. Then look round and thou wilt see a griffin, winged
cleft it in two: and as the sparrow flew from place to place, the carter
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
night?’ he answered, ‘With twelve princes in a castle under ground.’ And
Thumb.

witch herself took it into the kitchen to be dressed; and when it was
and knew not what to do. ‘Ah! what will become of me?’ said she; ‘what
‘Just stay waiting here, I alone will soon finish off the giants.’ Then
miller, and looked there, and found the cakes.
Hard by a great forest dwelt a poor wood-cutter with his wife and his
next morning the man took him to a well, and said: ‘Behold, the gold
the stairs. But this time she kept away too long, and stayed beyond the
the stones thither with all speed, and put as many of them into this
 ‘My mother killed her little son;
the beautiful young lady, and as nobody came with the salad and she
grated door. Scream as he might, it would not help him. Then she went to
settled whether we are respectable children or not; the bear has been
There was once a forester who went into the forest to hunt, and as
apple; I will give it you.’ ‘No,’ said Snowdrop, ‘I dare not take it.’
troubled with him no more.’
away it flew over the hills: and he was forced to turn and run after
my head, and you must know it hurts my shoulder sadly.’ ‘What do you say
pitcher of water in case she should be thirsty, and a little stool
to stay below and cannot work their way through; but now, when the sun
her fast. Then Hans goes to his mother. ‘Good evening, mother.’ ‘Good
charm; and she saw that the poor bride would be in her power, now that
now,’ said the fiddler, ‘you are good for nothing; you can do no work:
could wait no longer: so he gave his wife the hatchet, and cried, ‘Wife,

wonderful sword, and he slew the enemy’s army with it; and thus the

horse for it.’ ‘And the horse?’ ‘I gave a lump of silver as big as my
such a manner that they had no inclination to lie in wait for him. When
    
black as this ebony windowframe!’ And so the little girl really did grow
on the path.
roved about by herself, and looked at all the rooms and chambers, till
Gretel began to weep bitterly, but it was all in vain, for she was
heard the sharpening, and hurried down the steps again as fast as he
up and danced for joy, and again fell upon his knees and thanked Heaven,
they. ‘Look about on the ground,’ answered he, ‘and listen where the
Long before you or I were born, there reigned, in a country a great way
other he swallowed them down his throat. The youngest, who was in
upstairs in the cupboard, we will look on those,’ but they searched in
from her body, and pricked her and wounded her till she bled, and as he
him: ‘We will remember you--one good turn deserves another!’
parlour?’ said they; ‘they who would eat bread should first earn it;
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
to discover who was the enemy’s commander-in-chief. The gnat, who was
So she ran into the cellar again, took an enormous drink and ate up the
heaven’s sake don’t listen to him! don’t listen to him!’ But the judge
 ‘Bride, bride, there thou gangest!
said the man, ‘you need not make so many words about the matter; I will
away with it into a corner, where he soon ate it all up. ‘Well,’ said
Then he cut his leather out, all ready to make up the next day, meaning
hunger, and cried: ‘We will remember you--one good turn deserves
‘If I could but shudder.’ When it grew late, six tall men came in and

Gretel ran, and looked to see who was there, and when she saw the guest,
stronger than a lion he will not take me back again; what chance can I
One of these lucky beings was neighbour Hans. Seven long years he had
with his dear little daughter, who soon became stronger and every day
said the countryman, ‘I will soon bring it down.’ Then he took up his
us while other people seem so happy and merry with their children!’
There was once a man who had seven sons, and last of all one daughter.
replied: ‘She let my dear son be torn to pieces by wild beasts; I will
children, pile up some wood, and I will light a fire that you may not
But the youth said: ‘However difficult it may be, I will learn it. For
down your head and look so lonely and woe-begone?’ ‘Ah!’ replied the

that they could not return home again. Then their brother, who was a

cock-crow.

three glasses full, one of white wine, one of red, and one of yellow,
was passing by, going to be married; and she went to one of the windows
actually wanted to learn to shudder.’ ‘If that be all,’ replied the
costly diamonds grow, and I want so much to go there, that whenever I
Snow-white and Rose-red kept their mother’s little cottage so neat that
‘What would she have now?’ said the fish. ‘Ah!’ said the fisherman,
himself, ‘must I find the prize the good fairy told me of.’ So he once
 ‘Till the prisoner is fast,
hiding there. The robber took a light and began looking for it, but he
the view from my window.’ Now this hill was so big that the whole world
the butcher gave him a flask of ale, saying, ‘There, drink and refresh

THE WHITE SNAKE
all the people who had followed to look on. At first the thing was merry
take hold of it; but she cried out quickly:
    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
homewards, and took the Golden Apple to the king’s beautiful daughter,
amends for the wrong, allowed him to ask a favour, and promised him
friend, why do you go on foot then?’ ‘Ah!’ said he, ‘I have this load to

into her service.
took the little tailor to a mighty oak tree which lay there felled on
At this Dummling was glad, and said: ‘Get up and come with me; you shall
and went into the castle, and each prince danced with his princess; and
and bestir yourself, for we must be king of all the land.’ ‘Wife, wife,’
have a suit of red armour for the occasion, and ride on a spirited
that likewise,’ ‘Well thrown,’ said the tailor, ‘but after all the stone
nearly dry, but his bones were almost broken, and the bank was so steep
him three years, without having been paid any wages. At last it came
palace stood behind it, and how a wonderful princess, called Briar Rose,

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
at last thought to himself, ‘Of what use is this gold to me whilst I am
grand; they danced and sang; all were merry; and I only wish that you
whole ovenful of rolls, but what good is that when one has such a hunger
flowers. And whenever she had picked one, she fancied that she saw a

much like to see his royal palace; come, take me thither.’ ‘That is not
door, and a little voice cried out and said:
ear, and his head rolled off. She was so terrified at this, that she ran
larger heap, and said, ‘All this must be spun tonight; and if it is,
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
observing it, and lay on the ground beside a straw, and soon afterwards
and hear how beautifully it sings.’ Then he called his daughter and the
‘what’s the matter with you? You look quite out of spirits!’ ‘Ah, me!’
taking her with him, went to an inn where he thought he would stay the
he lifted up the cover, and saw a white snake lying on the dish. But
and would not speak to her at all; but they watched the geese until it
Thus Cat-skin lived for a long time very sorrowfully. ‘Ah! pretty
to give us a castle.’ ‘Wife,’ said the fisherman, ‘I don’t like to go to

And now only one,

this very day.
him good day, and said: ‘Do give me a piece of cake out of your pocket,
like myself comes, who can kill seven at one blow.’ ‘But are you not
your bed, and draw the clothes over you.’ Then the wicked wretch came in

fear,’ said the latter to his master. ‘Go wheresoever they take you, and
which I have strewn about, they will show us our way home again.’ When
sat and wept and screamed with all the strength of her body, over the
her father and his whole court were there already, and welcomed her home
On the road he met a sparrow that said to him, ‘Why are you so sad,
you?’ ‘I don’t know,’ answered the youth. Then the waggoner asked: ‘From
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
the king, and he sent one of his courtiers to the little tailor to offer
last her tears softened him, and he said, ‘I will give you three days’
be asleep, began to cry out in a clear voice: ‘Boy, make me the doublet
was soon caught and brought up to be tried.

though he had been so great a traveller, and had done and seen so many
tree, and brought away to his father the five eggs from under the bird;

  My sister loved me best of all;
them in the moonlight along the path. All night long they walked, and it
of silver as big as his head.
The old woman had only pretended to be so kind; she was in reality

she followed, throwing down some peas on either side of her at every
The gate was then closed, and the girl found herself back in the old
The fisherman did not much like the business: however, he went to the
opposition, silently and with half-shut eyes. When the first cock
her heart was almost broken, and she fell fainting to the ground. The
and, in order that nothing might pass without his hearing it, the door
that all the noises in the world would not have awakened him. At two
enough to get away from her, I do not know what I am to live upon.’
escaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell pierced his

They went on together, and as they passed a cherry-tree, the giant laid
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
them. They gave her three kinds of wine to drink, white, red, and
beard. Bad luck to you!’ and then he swung the bag upon his back, and
knees. They bound him with cords, and led him away to the castle. There
When they had walked for two hours, they came to a great stretch of
give me anything.’
they looked to see which way they should go home, they found themselves
when she saw that there was no help for her, she went out into a meadow,
the court sat to judge him; and when all was heard, it sentenced him to
have a good meal. I will eat a bit of the roof, and you Gretel, can eat
So on they went, and came to a lake where many many ducks were swimming
was come she gave birth to a son, and the king was filled with gladness.
When she was emptying the beans into the pan, one dropped without her
of the Golden Mountain.
forwards in the grass, but they could not make out what it was. When
the first thief,’ and as he actually was so, he was terrified, and said
When twelve o’clock had struck, the door sprang open, and the manikin
at home and had a good time of it. For, when the mouse had made the fire
door to run away; but on the steps King Grisly-beard overtook her, and
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
he left the palace and went to the boy, who was already big enough to
horse at a distance, which so frightened them that they pushed their
‘Seven years must I fly up and down over the face of the earth, but
  For we are going a visit to pay
  Weeping her little eyes quite red,
no need to stoop, and did not hurt her back or do herself any unexpected

fairy had told Heinel what fortune was in store for him, if he followed

and pans, and you shall stand in the market and sell them.’ ‘Alas!’
it; and when I am thirsty I can milk my cow and drink the milk: and what
When the wild man had once more reached the dark forest, he took the boy
close by the inn, soon swam out of their reach.
down close by the child, and pretend to be watching it, and I will come
perhaps is to carry it and give it to the king as a mark of respect.’
the flower, and as it was so pretty, plucked it, took it with him, and
  To Mr Korbes, the fox, today.’
ecclesiastics recognized therein the token from above, and asked him on
he stopped to look at it, and thought it very beautiful, and said to
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
more, and then died happily, and when she was buried, the two white

to her father and mother, and asked if she had any brothers, and what
Thus Chanticleer was left alone with his dead Partlet; and having dug
and the boy went once more and said: ‘I cannot open the door even if I
  There Snowdrop is hiding her head; and she
wished herself and her son at home in their kingdom. And when he awoke
and then thinking he should like to know the cause of dispute between
began to think of putting an end to him; but the ass, who saw that some
happened to them, and how each had learned some craft.
edition.
so?--what makes me shudder so, dear wife? Ah! now I know what it is to

that was the reason his life had been forfeited.
who was to be his wife; and she was led upstairs to the royal chamber;
before the king with the three branches and the golden cup; and the
to me.’
horses, and all set out, full of joy and merriment, for the prince’s
plight, and began to ponder how he should take his revenge, and serve

so that whatsoever in the world he wishes for, that shall he have.’ Then
THE WILLOW-WREN AND THE BEAR
agreed upon: and the son drew a circle on the ground, and set himself
earthenware stall in the corner of the market, where everybody passes?

cow--keep good company, and have milk, butter, and cheese, every day,

looked for work, but could find none, and he learnt nothing by which he
that control the winds; the number of the sands on the seashore; the
About midnight in they came, dancing and skipping, hopped round the
And when he had finished his song, he spread his wings, and with the
was beautiful and industrious, the other ugly and lazy. The mother,

word the traitors’ heads fell before him, and Heinel was once more king
running on and on, one behind the other, she began to laugh quite
let me into the sack for a little while?’ Then the other answered, as if

And thus Snowdrop lay for a long, long time, and still only looked as
began to gather together some bits of wood upon the ground. ‘What are
his head.
three ravens flew down to him, perched themselves upon his knee, and
want to make haste.’ ‘Oh, father,’ cried Tom, ‘I will take care of that;

dare not tell you,’ said he. But the prince begged very hard, and said,

so much about his faithfulness that she nearly died. Then her father
the middle, his companion took up his fiddle and played away, and the
‘No,’ answered the man, ‘I will neither eat not drink.’

floor. At the sight of this he was overjoyed, and forgetting all about
was so big that it filled a cart, and two oxen could hardly draw it; and
plunged in after him as one man. Then the entire village was dead, and
cock who was perched on the well, called out:

became conscious at last of great longing to go home; then she knew she
met him, and asked him what made him so merry. ‘Why, what should make
are these beautiful green meadows?’ said she. ‘They belong to King
said to Fundevogel: ‘Never leave me, and I will never leave you.’
my friend?’ ‘Because,’ said the dog, ‘I am very very hungry, and have
your voice is rough; you are the wolf!’ Then the wolf went away to a
bargain they wanted to make, crept up his father’s coat to his shoulder
you; go, and do it at once.’ They had therefore to go out and look for
and knocked at the door; but Snowdrop put her head out of the window and
The next man he met was a countryman carrying a fine white goose. The
it, and could give it nothing to eat, so it soon had to be killed. They
craft of the woods; and when he left his master he gave him a bow, and
a little piece of each loaf and drank a very little wine out of each
to be killed, and took her heart and tongue, and laid them on a plate,

Chanticleer, ‘Pray run as fast as you can, and fetch me some water, or I
of your bottle; I am so hungry and thirsty.’ Dummling answered: ‘I have
it, and walled up. Here she was to stay for seven years without meat
pockets whatever could be got in, and Gretel said: ‘I, too, will take
egg--break it when need comes.’

never go near or meddle with them.’ ‘No, Frederick,’ said she, ‘that
tell all she had done to the princess. She carried her point, and the
they stuck fast, and died wretchedly.
never leave you.’ Then said Fundevogel: ‘Neither now, nor ever.’
such a beast as this know about the matter?’ So he shot his arrow at
 ‘Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
of her tears wetted his eyes and they grew clear again, and he could
sack, Mr Fox, open your sack,’ cried the cat to him, but the dogs had

Then the queen was very much frightened; for she knew that the glass


assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
third master also, and when he came home again, and his father inquired:
As she went in, a little dwarf came up to her, and said, ‘What are you
great hurry.
wished to pass, and it immediately flew open. Another told him that he

turned into a raven, and flew away from her through the open window. The
nobody, she went to bed, thinking she must have been dreaming with her
sixth under the washing-bowl, and the seventh into the clock-case. But
as her word: she never spoke angrily to her, and gave her roast and
I know not how.’ ‘What will you give me,’ said the hobgoblin, ‘to do it
at the tailor, and said: ‘You ragamuffin! You miserable creature!’
go to the wedding, she said to the prince, ‘I will not go alone this
if his father bade him fetch anything when it was late, or in the
leathern saddle upon him, and not the golden one that is close by it.’
times so loudly that it echoed through the trees. Thereupon the wild man
but as soon as he touched her he likewise stuck fast, and was himself
lying on the ground: no breath came from her lips, and they were afraid
Little Red-Cap raised her eyes, and when she saw the sunbeams dancing
black pudding, and Marleen still wept without ceasing.

her spectacles and read aloud out of a large book, and the two girls
old man told him the story of the thicket of thorns; and how a beautiful
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
me.’ So he picked out a fine head and ate of it; but scarcely had he
this still more came, each with one tail more than the other, but they
And now the time drew near when Roland’s wedding was to be celebrated,
door of a nice trim little cottage. ‘Come in, come in!’ said she; ‘is
the bank: but, as he stooped down to drink, he forgot it, pushed it a
Then he thought something must have happened, and said, ‘I will go
Then the prince got down and looked at her foot; and he saw, by the
the friendly fairies, who had not yet given her gift, came forward, and

and were drowned. What was to be done? Then a large log of wood came
hungry so let me have something nice cooked, and a good draught of ale.’
on till you come to a room, where the golden bird sits in a wooden cage;
schools is as empty air. A little longer, and I shall know all that man
were a raven and would fly away, then I should have a little peace.’
all this; and as they spoke a gay coach drove up, with eight beautiful
will not do it; if the whole world insists on it, I will not do it!’ The
angrily with one another. One of them said that he had found a stick,
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
Then the gardener’s eldest son set out and thought to find the golden
said the Sultan; ‘I will be true to my master.’ However, the wolf
to sleep till daylight, and then find his way home to his father and
The goldsmith was in his workshop making a gold chain, when he heard the
a bird that was hanging in a cage on the wall cried:
who was lying moaning in the corner, and had broken his leg.
out, so we will have a feast.’ The peasant listened, and when he heard
take the huntsmen with him into the forest, and they were well pleased

spin; perhaps you will do that better.’ So she sat down and tried to
back by the road-side. His horse would have ran off, if a shepherd who

to enjoy the fun; and the nurse stood by her side with the baby in her
walls of the castle. Then he shrank for fear, turned pale, and trembled.
her mother’s grave and planted it there; and cried so much that it was
After he had walked for a long time, he came to the courtyard of a royal
the liquid ran out of it. ‘Faith,’ said he, ‘that was a little better,
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
Then the huntsman did as the old woman told him, cut open the bird, took
all safe in my pocket.’ ‘How much may it come to?’ said the little man.

said, ‘Woman, thou art surely mad!’ However, he went with her into the
where the gold is hidden.’ The fifth servant, however, crept into the

neither to the right hand nor to the left, nor took any rest, for seven
So on they went till they came to a rapid stream. ‘How shall we get
learnt nothing; are you not ashamed to appear before my eyes? I will
that apple,’ but he did not say a word; then she gave him a box on the
the most secret things was brought to him through the air. But he had a
beneath it and cried:
accident has befallen him,’ said the king, and the next day he sent out
Catherine, who had the door on her shoulder, began to be very tired;


heavens,’ she said, ‘is it possible that my poor children whom he has

friend, who seemed so anxious for his company.
‘We shall see,’ said the old man. ‘If you are stronger, I will let you
wherever his legs took him.
and ventured no farther. The straw, however, began to burn, broke in
me down!’ So his father took hold of the horse with one hand, and with
snow-white beard a yard long. The end of the beard was caught in a
little cottage.’
side, and the true one on the other; but nobody knew her again, for her

weep? If I get Hans, and we have a child, and he grows big, and has to
road and making a most rueful face. ‘Pray, my good lady,’ said the ass,

evening they took their right forms again. And when Lily came to the
himself upright on his hind legs, with his forefeet resting against the
‘Half-done,’ answered the cat. ‘Half-done! What are you saying? I
‘The dream may have been true,’ said the king. ‘I will give you a piece
me.’ Said the peasants: ‘Are there any more there?’ ‘Oh, yes,’ said he,

and two little loaves of bread; strike the iron door of the castle three
While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

earth, that I might not hear that song.’
pulled it out, lit it at the blue light and began to smoke. When the
to a baker’s shop, and pecked at two rolls that lay in the window, till
dwarf, who had stolen my treasures; I have had to run about the forest
your cap off, it is not seemly to keep it on in my presence.’ He again
was of brass and shone like gold, so brightly was it polished. In the
had no mind to have them. And the king then gave to each half a kingdom,
Then the dwarf said, ‘My masters are not at home; but if you will wait
‘What will become of me?’ And the lock of hair answered her again:
snored so that the branches waved up and down. The little tailor, not
his servant, and told him to go to a beautiful bed of roses that was

it; till, by the time he came back, she had done combing and curling her
what they will--beat, whip, pinch, prick, or torment you--bear all; only
you in peace; I only thought of eating you because I had nothing else.’


king ordered the cook to be torn in four pieces, but grief consumed the
had not even so much as a cow, and still less money to buy one, and


cried: ‘Where are you?’ ‘Here, on the stairs, I am sweeping,’ answered
shall I do with it? if I sell it, it will bring no more than another;
dear father, your will shall be done,’ and thereupon the king shut his
here, and a bearded man came and showed me a great deal of money down
head off.
‘What’s that to me?’ said the little man; ‘you have had your frolic, now
dog was compelled to devour before the sight of all, until flames burst

read the very same answer as before; and she said, ‘Snowdrop shall die,
A short time afterwards the mother sent her children into the forest

into the jug and Catherine stood looking on. At last it popped into her
and put on the golden slipper; and it fitted her as if it had been made

and in a moment he was a fly. ‘The cloak is very well,’ said he: ‘now

three.’ But of these also, none came home again, none were seen again.


her far into it, and shut the iron door, and fastened the bolt. Oh! then

since.
other by the hand when they went out together, and when Snow-white said:
his dungeon, when he chanced to see one of his comrades passing by. The
sleep all night for thinking what she should be next. At last, as she
could not look round, had to carry away the whole tree, and the little
wood, so that they will not find their way out again; there is no other
 ‘Falada, Falada, there thou hangest!’
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
it was of no use. ‘You have not stood the trial and can stay here no
‘Goodbye, Gretel.’ ‘Goodbye, Hans.’

 ‘Thou, queen, art the fairest in all this land:
last got?
dragged at my brown coat so that it is all torn and full of holes, you
he said: ‘Since you have given me to eat and to drink, I will give you
sleep there.’ And she was sent into the kitchen, and made to fetch wood
like the eldest, a cake and a bottle of wine. The little old grey man
are still alive or not, is known to God.
these should never see the daylight again.’
came down to earth again; I will throw you one which shall never come
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
shines; I feel just as if I were going to see an old friend again.’
to the king. ‘What a wonderful thing!’ said the king; ‘I have seen many
heir.
She had not been there long before she heard that the king’s eldest son
around me, so that I had altogether forgotten you; but Heaven hath sent
tear her in pieces, he felt as if a great weight were taken off his
She took care to do everything according to the old woman’s bidding and
beneath the fox’s tail, and sting with all his might. When the fox felt
know about the matter?
say, but scolded and reproached him. He who says A must say B, likewise,
awakened me as from a dream, for the strange princess had thrown a spell
sweetheart Roland. ‘That shall not help you,’ cried she, ‘even if you
at her window. The frame of the window was made of fine black ebony, and
The little bit of food that we people get is immediately burnt up with
and brighten them. She, however, did everything he bade her, without
servants came, nothing was there but a church, with a chandelier in
wicked and venomous looks. ‘Aha!’ she cried mockingly, ‘you would fetch
must excuse me, I am a poor huntsman.’ But the king insisted on it,
being seen. Then the king’s son lost sight of her, and could not find
to the tailor with her heavy basket, and he made her unpack all the pots
all the things were ready, they laid them on the table, instead of the
thing that is!’ said one: ‘there is a cart going along, and I hear a
morning if anything is moving in the room, and if you see anything, no
away.
before the king’s daughter, and as soon as she saw the seven people
the dark, and the duck seemed much tired, and waddled about a good
barrels, and drank and drank till his loins hurt, and before the day was
and opened it, and it was a young fox, who said:
bargain.
the goose.’ ‘Now,’ said the grinder, as he gave him a common rough stone
After a time there was another feast, and Cat-skin asked the cook to let
get out of the spring; but there he is at the door, and he wants to come
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

that the eye could scarcely follow it. ‘Now, little mite of a man, do
chamberlain told him all--how he had given him a sleeping draught, and

CLEVER GRETEL
death, we should keep together like good companions, and lest a new
get the whole of the property for her. This evil thought took possession
turn if we can. I am quite sorry to see them run about as they do; and
a deep sleep, and will not be able to help me. In the garden behind the




But Tom seemed as if he did not understand them, and bawled out again,
sorrow and dismay because of them, and yet no one could do anything to

  My sister loved me best of all;
all the land. Nothing was hidden from him, and it seemed as if news of
that an enchantress came there, and he heard how she cried:
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
Now the king had a daughter, who was just as beautiful as her mother,

The bird now flew to the juniper-tree and began singing:

approached who heard this conversation which the youth was holding with
 ‘In milk I’m breaking bread so sweet,
he took the string in his hand, and drove off the pig by a side path;
‘My darling, this is only a dream.’
piebald fool, you hungry mouse-hunter, what can you be thinking of? Have
little house of bread in order to entice them there. When a child fell
dived down and soon brought in the key from the bottom.
She wanted to save her brothers, and had no key of the castle of the
lake there lay twelve little boats with twelve handsome princes in them,
When Mr Korbes came home, he went to the fireplace to make a fire; but
you weep? Brother will soon be back.’ Then he asked his wife for more
‘for if I had not killed the dragon, he would, after all, have torn you
she had no sooner done so, then all her sadness seemed to leave her,
room, and then went to sit down to their work as usual; but when they
egg, they pecked a hole in it, ate it up, and threw the shells into the
Heinel said again, ‘What do you want here?’ The dwarf said, ‘I come to

two oxen a load of wood to the town, and sold it to a doctor for two
one stripes three times a day and hay once; give the next (who was
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
and had the same golden hair. And when she was grown up, the king looked


them and repeated everything, and said: ‘The lion wants to make the king
twelve beds all in one room; and when they went to bed, the doors were
‘The nuts are quite ripe now,’ said Chanticleer to his wife Partlet,
rather tired with their journey, they soon fell asleep.

sisters were gone, Ashputtel went to the hazel-tree, and said:
After some time the young queen heard her husband say in his dreams at
before; and then both the elder sons came in, and blamed the youngest
The wolf did not want to be asked twice; so that very night he went to
upon them. Then they gave him the cloak, and he wished himself a fly,
to a castle, before which lie a whole troop of soldiers fast asleep and

They stood still listening, and Tom said, ‘Take me with you, and I’ll


save myself by feigning to be asleep’; so he laid himself down as if he
In the evening, after they came home, Curdken went to the old king, and

a branch which he had fastened to a withered tree which the wind was
mouse, ‘now I see what has happened, now it comes to light! You are a true
the next day he pursued his way through the forest, and that evening,

was caught too fast. ‘I will run and fetch someone,’ said Rose-red. ‘You
unluckily, no one saw that there was a crack in the door. Then the
was also shocked, but hoped the king would soon give up such thoughts;

to tell you; I will reward you for your kindness; go your way, and after
and there your brothers live.’ The little girl took the piece of wood,

The eldest thought: ‘I shall soon find an opportunity of pulling out a
Not long afterwards, there was once more great dearth throughout the
When the man awoke and found that he had been sleeping, he was grieved
‘The better to see you with, my dear.’
The youth likewise went his way, and once more began to mutter to
lies on the mountain, and will be choked by a great nut.’ But the bride
has performed both the tasks, he shall not be my husband until he had
to do it; he who can hit seven with one blow has no need to be afraid of
shall stand outside, and when he has fallen asleep shall go in, bind
there, and watched what would happen.
And then the prince and Briar Rose were married, and the wedding feast
after the house by yourself.’ ‘Yes, yes,’ answered the mouse, ‘by all
given me.’ ‘What did Gretel give you?’ ‘A calf.’ ‘Where have you the
and there sat a very, very old woman, who could not keep her head from
to lie by the hearth among the ashes; and as this, of course, made her
who seemed to be waiting there for the princesses.
cried: ‘Hansel, stretch out your finger that I may feel if you will soon
  Of all the ladies in the land,
to the fiddler. When this was over the king said, ‘Now get ready to
it up; and she was so overjoyed to have it in her hand again, that she
again, and enable me to pay off some folks for their treachery.’ So he
For a while he watched it sinking in the deep clear water; then sprang
misfortune, but her stepmother spoke harshly to her, and after giving
was eating it. The little tailor looked round and thought: ‘It is much
the finger and sat down.
be emperor?’ said the fisherman. ‘Husband,’ said she, ‘go to the fish!

that it might burn the quicker, she lighted it with a handful of straw.
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
nest lay, and trotted away. The bear, however, could not rest until he
close, and then sprang nimbly behind the tree. The unicorn ran against
he killed, and threw out into the fish-pond. When he came back he fanned
And he went with them and made them form a great circle, open at one end
  The shoe is too small, and not made for you!
horses, decked with plumes of feathers and a golden harness; and behind

my golden cup.’ But the maid answered her, and even spoke more haughtily
  Little does my lady dream
her the golden slipper. Then she took her clumsy shoe off her left foot,

in this nasty dirty pigsty; do go back and tell the fish we want a snug
The next day at noon, the old woman came to him again with food and
glittered like real silver pennies. Hansel stooped and stuffed the

said she, ‘I am very uneasy as long as the sun and moon rise without my
has fled to the Red Sea, and is changed once more into a lion, for the
that within it lay a dress as dazzling as the sun itself. So she put it
vain, for the castle was not marked even on these. The man now thought

  Blow, breezes, blow!
and no one ever did anything to harm her again.
half-pence, out of which he had to eat.
chandelier in it. And the cook scolded them and said: ‘You fools! why
 ‘Hither, hither, through the sky,
  Underneath the juniper-tree
themselves, I cannot let you burn them.’
soon saw the white finger, and the ring that he had put on it whilst
Elsie and the girl both weeping together. Then he asked: ‘Why are you
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
sorry that for the sake of one he should lose all his faithful servants,
still more glad. But her father began to be very sorrowful, and to weep,

the wood, telling the others that he had been their servant long enough,
come back; and had a road made leading up to her palace all of shining
he wanted to run away, but the stones were so heavy that he collapsed at

the tailor had sewn them together.
left off weeping. Then he went to the king, and told him all his
sitting amongst the branches; and they called him a cowardly rascal,

a rose-tree, and I the rose upon it.’ When the three servants came to
he found himself alone, and saw that the ring was gone from his finger.
‘Whither away, Hans?’ ‘To Gretel, mother.’ ‘Behave well, Hans.’ ‘Oh,
you please, I’ll fasten them to the door.’

and it is now too late for me to save her.’ Then his eyes fell on the
cap and pulled it off, and then his golden hair rolled down on his
Early next morning the forester got up and went out hunting, and when he
he had said his prayers, he sat himself down to his work; when, to his
it.
be on your guard against the wolf; if he comes in, he will devour you
he thought in his heart, ‘I never saw any one half so beautiful.’

struck twelve, and the spirit disappeared, so that the youth stood in
For a long time she did not know that she had ever had any brothers; for

be spun into gold before morning, as you love your life.’ It was in vain
Hans comes to Gretel. ‘Good day, Gretel.’ ‘Good day, Hans. What good
return. The next day, however, she began to dawdle over her work, and
all kinds of things which they had seen in the fields and woods. Eating
friend?’ said the ass. ‘Alas!’ said the dog, ‘my master was going to
every breath he drew; till at last he came to the old tower, and opened
The two children were so fond of one another that they always held each

sorrowed much that they had no children. So greatly did they desire
floor, that he was forced to lay hold of it with both hands to pull it
let him out, and he trotted across the snow into the forest.
not rest at home; and as he came to the wood, he met the fox, and heard
raised up her voice to it, and said, ‘Thou blowest through every tree
food until the seven years were over.
the house and crawled through the drain into the kitchen, and then into
went out to the forest, and called Iron Hans. ‘What do you desire?’
approaching. When the true bride heard that, it hurt her so much that
price, for I have said I would give you to a wild lion; and when he has
robbers, who had been not a little frightened by the opening concert,

of ill-luck upon him; so that as he rode on the mountain pass became
‘It would be better for you to share the last mouthful with your
if they would go in peace or not. Then they turned upon him and tried
head, humming a tune, while buzz! went the wheel. ‘How prettily that
bottom of the sea, and added: ‘If you come up again without it you will
overwhelmed with joy, and made it known throughout all his kingdom, that
meats, which she put into her basket to take home.
little urchin will make our fortune, if we can get him, and carry him
ago.’ So she took the bread-shovel and drew them all out.
therefore she ought to be mine.’ ‘No, she is mine,’ said the huntsman;

JORINDA AND JORINDEL
there was nothing to do.
and sat herself down and wept. But as she sat she bethought herself of
pocket, and went forth on the great highway, and continually said to
his cave, for the bear was already close. Then in the dread of his heart

us.’ The other had no suspicions of his roguery: so they went out
The youth wandered on, and after some time came to a fortress where he
and dug them up.’ ‘Wife, wife,’ said Frederick, ‘what a pretty piece of
  Sadly, sadly, would she rue it.’
to the thicket he saw nothing but beautiful flowering shrubs, through
also was turned into an ass and ran after the other, letting the dish

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
king was then married to his true wife, and they reigned over the
further. And their mother told them that it must have been the angel who
patience, and drew a piece of cloth from the hole under his work-table,
an owl, and then a raven, and at last a dove, and sat by her side.
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
bewailed his trouble, and told him how his younger son was so backward
was beginning his journey, and said, ‘Go straight forward, till you come
together; and one said to the other, ‘How can we rob that rich parson’s
in my sleeve.’ ‘That’s ill done, Hans, you should have put the knife in


forest, and when they saw from afar the three servants running, Lina

there?’ The peasant answered: ‘I have a soothsayer inside it.’ ‘Can

thing to ask me to do, one of the apples might fall on my head,’ and
the wealth of the kingdom if he would let her off, but in vain; till at
away in search of provisions. When the brother came home, they asked him
as she woke up and looked at it through the window, ‘after all I cannot
therefore she ought to be mine.’ ‘Your seeing her would have been of
The wife sprang up, with her hair standing out from her head like flames

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
prisoner neck and shoulders together into a sack, and swung him up by a
one said in a pitiful tone: ‘Something lies heavy on my stomach; as
dangerously ill, and near his death. He said to him: ‘Dear son, I wished
heart,’ said Hans: ‘but as you are so kind to me, I must tell you one
I wish you had been made to run the soles off your shoes!’ Then he took
There was a king who had twelve beautiful daughters. They slept in
  And carry old Mr Fox outside.’
go on in the track in which the dog lay, so as to drive over him, called
met the fox. ‘Where are you going, Chanticleer?’ said he. ‘To bury my
This was just what Tom had reckoned upon; and now he began to set up a
what do you want?’ Now Heinel had found a friend in a good fairy, that
he:
But there was no princess in the world so beautiful; and if there had
whenever I put my hand in my pocket: what could I want more? there’s
 ‘O man of the sea!

here and has insulted us!’ Then the old King said: ‘Be easy, he shall
and let me go.’ And the master said, ‘You have been a faithful and good
to their father’s house. They knocked at the door, and when the woman
 ‘Shake, shake, hazel-tree,
lion, and roared out, ‘Whoever has stolen my roses shall be eaten up
said, ‘Poor man! how tired you are! Come in and rest and let me give you
her, and said to himself, ‘I will not lose her this time’; but, however,


find a piece of gold under your pillow every morning when you rise. It
Gutenberg™ License.

sang:
  Work light and live well,
girl looked up at Falada’s head, and cried:
supported me in the tower, will soon set me free.’ She lived three days
knock me on the head, because I am old and weak, and can no longer make
his kingdom, and to take the finest fur out of their skins: and thus a

He walked nearer than a hundred paces to it, and yet he did not become
sure, and they have fallen upon our corn in the loft, and are eating it
below, but no one told me what it was to shudder.’ ‘Then,’ said the
cat. ‘You with your hundred arts are left in the lurch! Had you been
 ‘Caw! Caw! well I ween
it is, but wherever it came from it has been a very good friend to me. I

than she was; so she dressed herself up as an old pedlar, and went
that,’ said the wife. Then they went to bed: but Dame Ilsabill could not
horsemen and said: ‘The work is done; I have finished both of them
Then the fox stretched out his tail, and so away they went over stock
Cat-skin,’ said the cook; ‘for you always put something into your soup,
‘Well, here you are again,’ said the mouse, ‘no doubt you have had a
and knights. Then the princess came in, and as she passed by them she
Rose (for so the king’s daughter was called): so that, from time to
bride saw them from her window, and was so pleased that she came forth
them.
  And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!’
‘Ah me!’ cried the wife, ‘if I were but a thousand feet beneath the
Another day Chanticleer and Partlet agreed to go again to the mountains
weep, nor speak, nor stir hand or foot. And now the sun went quite down;
are called little lambs, and they were reflected in the water, whereupon


brought to her. At night when the young king was sleeping, his wife was
‘Yes,’ said the cook, and weighed her in his hand; ‘she has spared
light within her, and it seemed to her that her wish was granted, and
midnight came, an uproar and noise of tumbling about was heard; at
        receipt of the work.
horror, and saw what it was that he had bound himself to do; but as no
night-wind, to seek thee, and at last I have helped thee to overcome
  My father grieved when I was gone;
about a few days he luckily found it. Then he stained his face all over
we may know if you are our dear little mother.’ Then he put his paws


you, if they find you in the kingdom.’ So he dressed himself as a poor
And the bird came and brought a still finer dress than the one she
and said: ‘Peasant, from whence do you come? Have you come out of the
‘If you will never leave me, I too will never leave you.’ Fundevogel
thought he, ‘that chap is pretty well taken in. I don’t care whose pig
king said, ‘You have sung so well, that I will give you my daughter for
and passed with the torches before the hall, a very small ray of light
Then he came at last to the palace, and there in the court lay the dogs
on her marriage. Joy was in every face and every heart. The feast was
‘Where is the goat, Hans?’ ‘Put it in my pocket.’ ‘That was ill done,
turned into stones awoke, and took their proper forms. And the dwarf

whether all you have told me about your three things is true.’ The
like to have a piece of bread to eat after it.’ ‘Come with me then,’
to cook, and to the bird to fetch the water.
just see if she wants anything.’ So he went into the room, and when he
BANDY-LEGS, HUNCHBACK, CROOK-SHANKS, and so on; but the little gentleman
immediately and put them in her mouth, and scarcely were they swallowed
brings a piece of gold under his pillow every morning.’ Meantime the
again.’ ‘What nonsense,’ thought the princess, ‘this silly frog is

millstone, and I will sing it again.’
be put to the test, and have assumed some strength. Just let twelve
give him a good dinner, and let him have my old cushion to sleep on
But as you have not a bad heart, and as I mean well by you, there is
  Until she comes to the parlour door.
you can catch it alive, and we will take it with us.’ So the huntsmen
do I see?’ replied the ass. ‘Why, I see a table spread with all kinds of
a stone in his hand and squeezed it together so that water dropped out
thorn-bush, so that she might drop some blood on to the spindle; then
sprawl about him. Then he woke up and cried: ‘Oh, what makes me shudder
children, then the apprentices, girls and boys, and they all ran up the
to himself, ‘I cannot go home to my father without my brothers’; so he

shoot you.’ The prince started at this, and said, ‘Let me live, and I
evening; and when you get there, you will see two inns opposite to each
for you?’ ‘My necklace,’ replied the maiden. He took her at her word,
 ‘What does he look like, my dear?’
water, but the other six ran with him. Each wanted to be first at
cock perched upon a beam on the top of the house; and, as they were all
be punished,’ and he at once flew with the Queen to the bear’s cave, and
he would tell them a tale. So he began, and told all the story of the
deep valley, overhung with rocks and woods; and as he looked around, he
sorrowful that they cannot last long.’ Then the huntsman pitied them,
come, and who is your father, for I have reason to be ashamed of you.’
task: only take care not to drink any of the wine which one of the
kettle, I will throw in Fundevogel, and will boil him in it.’

all colours so beautifully that the children stood still and stared
tom-cat and screaming frightfully. Nor was it long before the little man
chirping and hopping about. And they flew down into the ashes; and the
senseless goose!’ snarled the dwarf; ‘why should you fetch someone? You
travelled all over the world, I think, in one way or other, since we
sinner, why did you want to kill me? Now will I pronounce thy sentence.

  To Mr Korbes, the fox, today.’


to our little daughter.’ Now there were thirteen fairies in the kingdom;
is no longer my son, I drive him forth, and command you to take him
  The heaven-born wind,’
the village, and the calf was missing, he inquired where it was. The
Catherine were. Frederick slipped down on the other side, and picked up
is out hunting, I will heat the water, and when it is boiling in the
‘What an unlucky wretch I am!’ cried he. ‘Not wretch enough yet!’ said
the cook don’t thank me for my pains, but threaten to cut off my

said, ‘Put your plate nearer to me, that I may eat out of it.’ This
gardener so rich, he envied him sorely, and bethought himself how he
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.
himself, ‘Can it be Ashputtel?’ So he had an axe brought; and they cut
o’clock at night the princess goes to the bathing-house: go up to her
of Life, and had taken a cup full of it; and how he had set a beautiful
and how his master meant to kill him in the morning. ‘Make yourself


hands. The old woman, however, nodded her head, and said: ‘Oh, you dear
THE WOLF AND THE SEVEN LITTLE KIDS
were coming.’
grief promised all she asked, she shut her eyes and died. But the king
my teeth chatter, and I feel as if there were a fire in my veins,’ and
have my beast back again.’ Then they went back to the meadow together,
  Open the door to thy true love here!
leave them alone. They will not find the way home again, and we shall be


hid himself in a bush by the meadow’s side; and he soon saw with his own
said, ‘Whatever you shoot at with this bow you will be sure to hit.’
window.’ They set out on their way, but when they arrived, the pot of
jumped up and shot an arrow at it. But the arrow did the bird no harm;
‘I will take great care,’ said Little Red-Cap to her mother, and gave
but could not find it. ‘Never mind,’ he said, ‘I have larger maps
The next morning when he awoke he lifted up his pillow, and there lay
and have it bound up. And this was the little grey man’s doing.
spot. ‘Unlucky wretch that I am!’ said he. ‘Not wretch enough yet!’ said
darting this way and that way, and whosoever was so much as touched by
carried in the princess. ‘Aha! are you there?’ cried the soldier, ‘get
sprang out, crying: ‘Ah, how frightened I have been! How dark it was
‘Children, rejoice, eat and drink to your heart’s content, we have won
On a sudden Jorindel found himself free. Then he fell on his knees
into the room to the bed. What did she see there? Her own child,
down inside gaping for their prey, but if you throw them the bread they
  Then will it please her to step below?’

and secretly went there before him; and when the boy was at the top of
power is gone, and I shall be free, and will come and bring you the
of them one more piece of bread, and then we will go to our work and
one day, as he sat on the shore with his rod, looking at the sparkling
go, but be back again in half an hour’s time, to rake out the ashes.’
lie in ambush, he went to his brother, and said, ‘Dear brother, I have



The soldier wished to take away some token of the place; so he broke
daughter.’ But the man was unwilling to do so and said, ‘It may be my
for. He said to himself, ‘I will give her to the first suitable man who
tears. Once, too, his trembling hands could not hold the bowl, and it

in trouble, and rolled fearfully upon the tops of the billows. In the
Little Red-Cap, however, had been running about picking flowers,
Then he told her all that had happened, and said, ‘I love you far better
clack.’

the large teeth from her sister, she was not afraid of them, and engaged
away every morning; but he was so much in love that he never missed his
Then first came two white doves in at the kitchen window; next came two




is with me in a moment.’ ‘Ah! you wicked child,’ cried the enchantress.
gold; and told her courtiers that whoever came on horseback, and rode
The twelve huntsmen always followed the king to the chase, and his
festival too, and only came home yesterday evening; he has likewise
piece of kindness.’ ‘That I will,’ said the prince. ‘Then tell one of
said; and she plucked the eleventh rod, and smote the dragon, and the
So saying, he trotted off on the student’s nag, and left the poor fellow
the farmer saw his old servant, his heart relented, and he said. ‘Thou
I’ve a mind to be merry myself’; and he began, singing and shouting as
Then she ran into the kitchen, and cooked the king’s soup; and as soon
  My wife Ilsabill
understand one art which will support me.’ ‘Learn what you will,’ spoke
into the palace. This, however, none of them could ever do; for the
and then lay down again. The little tailor, who was only pretending to
Then the princess thought to betray her as before, and agreed to
one day that a feast was to be held in the king’s castle, so she said to
narrower and narrower, and at last the way was so straitened that he
And now the best food was cooked for poor Hansel, but Gretel got nothing
or had perished. Hardly had he formed the wish than the marshal began,
pecked and scratched at a steak that lay upon the edge of the shelf,
 ‘The ring-dove sang from the willow spray,

gate it flew open, and the princess welcomed him with joy, and said
Jorinda was just singing,
could not cease looking on it for joy, and said he would hold a great

the wedding was celebrated, and he was crowned king of the Golden
the head with them: but they only said, ‘It must be near morning, for
supported herself on crutches, came creeping out. Hansel and Gretel were
properly for me, I will make you very happy. You must be very careful,
can I wish for more?’ When he came to an inn, he halted, ate up all his

work you have made! those yellow buttons were all my money: how came you
him to stop, but the guest pretended not to hear. Then he ran after him

As soon as the dwarf felt himself free he laid hold of a bag which lay
heaven, followed her body and seated themselves on her grave. The aged
joy. After this a mist came round the tree, and in the midst of it there
As he was thus sitting, his finger hurt him so violently that he
suspecting the company who had come in the night before, he went to look
should be, flew up to the very top of the tree, and then, according to
the world; it shall be well treated, and I will care for it like a
beast, such as we never saw before; its skin seems to be of a thousand
thrust her head into the oven. Then Gretel gave her a push that drove
Roland into a fiddler. It was not long before the witch came striding up
    

parlour, and a bedchamber, and a kitchen; and behind the cottage there

the river, and the river gave him water, and he carried the water to
you good counsel: beware of two things; ransom no one from the gallows,
that was two miles high. And she had three great crowns on her head, and
when her song stopped suddenly. Jorindel turned to see the reason, and
  But lovelier far is the new-made queen.’
the prince said, ‘My friend, what is the matter with you?’ ‘I cannot and
and took a good drink, and thought that wine should flow on, and should
harm shall happen to you.’ She took them both by the hand, and led them

Gretel, shook her till she awoke, and cried: ‘Get up, lazy thing, fetch
had in the world was gone, save just leather enough to make one pair of
sit?’ said one of them. ‘Oh, put me on the rim of your hat; that will be
fished up out of the lake.’ And as the dwarf came to the brink of it,
‘Whither away so early, Little Red-Cap?’
The wolf answered:
the soldier was forced to put it into a cart, and drag it home with him.

and we shall have the reward. Pray, with all your cleverness, why did
his place amongst the knights, and was recognized by no one. The king’s
this as long as it lasted; and then her husband bought a fresh lot of
fell upon the prince. In a moment he disappeared, and when his wife came
  And all the good people they danced and they sung,

fetching so much water?’ ‘If you will never repeat it to anyone, I will

she is!’ And they were very glad to see her, and took care not to wake
please her too. It is so early in the day that I shall still get there
done, and all flew out again at the windows.
brought a coffin. Then he said: ‘Ha, ha, that is certainly my little

There was once an old castle, that stood in the middle of a deep gloomy
mile long, full of sheep, and goats, and hares, and deer; and in the
dwarf: ‘I was going to split the tree to get a little wood for cooking.
it; cold water I cannot stand, a barrel of wine I have just emptied, but
  Sadly, sadly, would she rue it.’
but she thought it was the nuts upon it that were so heavy: so she said

The fisherman went, but his heart was very heavy: and when he came to
upon the lips of the one that had eaten the honey: and so the dwarf knew
eaten this too, the sparrow said to him, ‘Well, my good friend, have you
form of an ass. Now the servant-maid came into the kitchen, and seeing
When the second prince had thus been gone a long time, the youngest son

frightened me.’

a very hazardous thing; for if the least ray of the torch-light should
said to her: ‘Dearest child, why are you so sad? You shall have
sausages yesterday, so carry the water in which I boiled them to the
the mornings and refused to get up. Worse still, she neglected to
anything to eat for a long time. I can have you now for my supper.’ ‘I
Go out of my sight. I will see you no more.’

said: ‘Neither now, nor ever will I leave you.’ Then said Lina: ‘Then
their side, the stag leapt merrily by them, and the birds sat still upon
much as they liked; and they got so used to him that the doors were
happened the second and third night: so the king ordered his head to be
elbows, turned out his toes, cracked his whip, and rode merrily off, one
of hearing, his knees trembled, and when he sat at table he could hardly
afterwards she shut her eyes and died, and was buried in the garden;
1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
into his pocket without finding money in it--but where did you get that
bed. But the seventh saw Snowdrop, and called all his brethren to come
till she came to the oven. ‘Take us out, take us out, or alas! we shall
But the old king begged so hard, that she had no peace till she had told
in such trouble that he did not think what he was doing, and said: ‘Yes,
find something at the roots.’ Then the little man took leave of him.
Then the glass one day answered the queen, when she went to look in it

bed, and before you come back from the place where you are taken, hide
will even cut off your head; but at the twelfth hour of that night their
said the huntsman; ‘and I am glad that I had pity on him, but let him
what can you do?’ cracked his whip, and drove his cart over the poor
awoke, and said, ‘Where am I?’ And the prince said, ‘Thou art quite safe

had golden hair. They rode back and announced this to the king.
forge, took an axe, and with one blow struck an anvil into the ground.
  Who is fairest, tell me, who?’
boy one day asked what was the matter, but his father would not tell for
weary they let the matter rest, and their eyes closed once more. The
one, which he had found on a tree was called Fundevogel, because a bird

snorted with its nostrils, and could hardly be restrained, and behind
forest with safety.
so he cut of a little bit and put it into his mouth. No sooner had it
determined to manage more cleverly than his brother, and got together a
Little Marleen went upstairs and took her best silk handkerchief out of
already done, the room was swept, the table and benches cleaned, the
not do that; the king has forbidden it,’ and ran away. The next day he
down to sleep.
see that everything was well. In doing this, he saw afar off something
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
the kitchen, there lay Ashputtel among the ashes; for she had slipped
from both sides much money in reward, and became a renowned man.
took off the hinges, and said, ‘Frederick told me to lock the door, but
The next day when the feast was again held, and her father, mother, and
shift with a slice of bread and cheese. Then the woman served up four
tail, and you will travel faster.’ So he sat down, and the fox began to
The good couple saw them no more; but everything went well with them
and moved off, dragging the lion behind him. The beast began to roar
still.
shudder!’
service a penny. The poor fellow thought it was a great deal of money to
cellar myself and see where Elsie is.’ But when he got into the cellar,
assembled guests.
lay down by his fire, and slept till it was day. In the morning the king
grieved them very much indeed. But one day as the queen was walking
recognized her. Then his heart was so touched that he kissed her, and
what had happened. ‘You have let a hair fall into the well,’ said he.
alone, and sat there weeping; and he followed her there. ‘Alas!’ said
is too bad!’ cried he, and sprang up like a madman, and pushed his
Whilst the five were trotting thus one behind the other, two labourers
shook. And all the heavens became black with stormy clouds, and the
‘You have invited a fine guest!’ ‘Why, Gretel? What do you mean by
of her little daughter’s hand, and said, ‘You shall not have one before

‘Ah, heavens! Then it is not I,’ and went to another door; but when the
told her mother that she must and would have that apron. ‘Be quiet, my
and could fight no longer, passed through the country where this king
as I require.’ ‘I well see,’ said the king, ‘that I owe my thanks to
her quite like a friend, and told her that his heart had been so stirred
out ‘Murder!’ and not knowing what was coming, ran away as fast as they
may get up some kind of a concert; so come along with us.’ ‘With all my
which bore golden apples. These apples were always counted, and about
the whole of one round window-pane, sat down, and enjoyed herself with
the sleeping princess was again carried through the streets, some peas
But the old king was very angry when he saw how his daughter behaved,
in.’ Then the queen said, ‘Only look at my beautiful combs!’ and gave
hunt in the wood, that his daughter could spin gold out of straw. Now
and the king said to the lion: ‘You have lied to me, they walk just like
Then the fiddler went his way, and took her with him, and they soon came
terrified, and ran thither and scolded the boy. ‘What wicked tricks
world.
yourself.’ His mother gave him a cake made with water and baked in the
catching it again as it fell. After a time she threw it up so high that

Some time afterwards Snow-white and Rose-red went to catch a dish
And when the princess opened the door the frog came in, and slept upon
are all the beautiful white feathers. I will put them into my pillow,
went on. His punishment, however, was not delayed; when he had made a
wolf wants to deceive someone,’ and refused; but the wolf said: ‘If you
The time soon came, when the eldest brother thought that he would make
Red-Cap shining, and then he made two snips more, and the little girl
kissed him. His father and mother came to the wedding, and were in great
with you in the hut. I brought you there because I really loved you. I


was a little garden, planted with all sorts of flowers and fruits; and
inquired if he too could not be a doctor. ‘Oh, yes,’ said the doctor,
eaten you will have some peace, why should God’s good gifts be spoilt?’
and could do everything, but the younger was stupid and could neither
and the head answered:
  Underneath the juniper-tree
could. Gretel was not idle; she ran screaming to her master, and cried:
man, ‘my wife wants to be king.’ ‘Go home,’ said the fish; ‘she is king
It happened that the eldest wanted to go into the forest to hew wood,
flock chattering away; but one fell down dead, and the cloak with it.

miser: close by them stood a tree, and on the topmost twig sat a thrush
THE ELVES AND THE SHOEMAKER
the three servants in pursuit of the children. The children, however,
give you; you must go out into the wide world and try your luck. Begin
in and looked for him, she found only a white dove; and it said to her,
‘How lighthearted I feel,’ said the father, ‘so pleased and cheerful.’
When the king came and saw this, he was greatly astonished and pleased;
round for her, she was gone, no one knew wither. The guards that stood
the father, ‘she has plenty of good sense’; and the mother said: ‘Oh,
along upon the ground, till at last it fell down into the spring. The

pushed off his hat: so he broke it off and brought it away; and when he
touching the bird at all. In the end, however, they caught her: and the
agreed that until that time he should come to her every evening, for the

with the most beautiful eyes she had ever seen, and standing at the head
shalt stay in thy stable and be well taken care of.’ And so the poor old
when he awoke the next morning he broke off a head both of the good and
As a merry young huntsman was once going briskly along through a wood,
pieces, and sprinkled salt upon it.
head till he croaked loudly. The miller asked: ‘What did he say?’ The
Then Dummling said: ‘Father, do let me go and cut wood.’ The father
harm in it; you should have told me.’
no man was to be seen. Then they went through all the rooms, till they
dead men, however, did not hear, but were quite silent, and let their
asleep; the butler, who was slyly tasting the ale, fell asleep with the
you a kind turn. Your pig may get you into a scrape. In the village I
working and singing,
Meanwhile the princess was eagerly waiting till her deliverer should
violent storm, and in her eyes a burning and flashing like lightning:
The poor horse was very melancholy, and wandered up and down in the
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
Presently she came to the top of a hill, down the side of which there
he was now ten times more so. He had not gone far before he met an old
things go in threes,’ said she, ‘I am asked to stand godmother again.
  And the spell has bound her,

‘How much will you have? Shall I throw it all out?’ Now the cook lay in
The sun was setting fast, and already half of its circle had sunk behind
  Reel away, reel away,
going too far, he seized his cutting-knife, and cried: ‘Away with you,
went as near as he could to the water’s brink, and said:

rich that his brother’s fortune could not at all be compared with his.
Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
The husband thought to himself, ‘If my wife manages matters thus, I must
we had grown big, and heard that you were seeking the Golden Apple,
city to turn musician: suppose you go with me, and try what you can
would bury her: but her cheeks were still rosy; and her face looked just
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
swallowed down for his supper, can be still alive?’ Then the kid had to
table and carried them outside, and all the time she did nothing but
  My wife Ilsabill
you to take away with you as much rampion as you will, only I make one
most beautiful princess upon the face of the earth. But the king said,
able to get that), I can, whenever I like, eat my butter and cheese with
and said: ‘Tonight when the boy is asleep, go to his bed and plunge this
of the house, and every morning laid a wreath of flowers by her mother’s

began to flee, but the youth pursued, and never stopped, until there
however, to make my bed in the right way, for I wish you always to shake
‘Bird,’ he said, ‘how beautifully you sing!’ Then he called through the
brother’s head,’ and then she wept and wept, and nothing would stop her.

washed her face with wine and water; but all was in vain, for the little
set off towards their father’s home, where they told him all that had
blowing backwards and forwards. And as they had been sitting such a long
found his Jorinda again.
some time; at last, however, he said that he had, without knowing it,
intertwined, and then the blossoms began to fall. Once again the wife
  There’s never a plank, or bridge in sight,
mill went ‘Click clack, click clack, click clack.’ Inside the mill were
the prince followed her, she jumped up into the pigeon-house and shut
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

and no one else was present, a trusty servant had to bring him one more
could nowhere see the cook. In his alarm and flurry, he threw the wood
off again, all was to no purpose. In the evening Iron Hans came back,
and asked her why she did so: but she burst into tears, and said, ‘That
flew into the fields; the flies on the walls buzzed again; the fire in

When Tom found they were gone, he came out of his hiding-place. ‘What
and the bed sank into the floor and a trap-door flew open. The soldier
the three golden apples?’ asked the king. ‘Yes,’ answered he, ‘and here
must once more descend into the garden. In the gloom of evening
The sexton, however, remained standing motionless that the boy might
job was quite done, and the shoes stood ready for use upon the table.
spit, the queen’s ring was found inside her.
said the young lady; ‘he has already lost his wealth.’ Then the witch
her own daughter, and one beautiful and good, and this one she hated,
the way, and rode so quickly that he did not even see what the road was

paid no heed to her cries and lamentations. They gave her wine to drink,
glass-mountain, and found the door shut. Then she felt for the little
as the maid did not come back, and those upstairs were thirsty for the

and wondrous things. Compared to this seat, all the learning of the
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
was brown like rusty iron, and whose hair hung over his face down to his
it. But when he came to the gate, the guards, who had seen the road

life.
At first Rapunzel was terribly frightened when a man, such as her eyes
too?’ The mother was angry at this, but she answered, ‘Yes, when he
‘Bravo!’ said the ass; ‘upon my word, you make a famous noise; pray what
grain was missing. The ant-king had come in the night with thousands
bring nothing, but would have something given.’ Gretel presents Hans
however, came up to them, and when she saw the pond she lay down by it,
The woman led the children still deeper into the forest, where they had
has come home, and has brought every one of you something back from the
the sand at his feet. He listened, and heard an ant-king complain: ‘Why
again!’ Early in the morning before the children were awake, she was
and could speak.

out at the door, and away over the green.
father: ‘Everything is eaten again, we have one half loaf left, and that
him: ‘Boy, bring me a wreath of flowers.’ He put his cap on with all
white ring round its neck, I cannot refuse.’ The good mouse consented,

the door, that lifted my ball for me out of the spring this morning: I
unable to move a step, and thus he was forced to abide spellbound.
And the glass answered:
sprang towards it, and threw a white cloth over it. Instantly the
baby crowed; and all the court jeered at him for having had so much
must come to the nest, and beg for pardon and say that we are honourable
Now as the king to whom the wood belonged was hunting in it, his dogs
the prince haughtily, and rode on.
field; and they take their little child with them, and lay it down
They often ran about the forest alone and gathered red berries, and no
‘I am a poor child that has neither father nor mother left; have pity on

kingdom every day of one’s life!’ ‘Oh, yes,’ he replied, ‘I will soon
a wood, and lay down under a tree to sleep. But he heard a rustling in

alone. One day the child was very troublesome, and the mother could not
  Well-a-day! Well-a-day!

little tailor. ‘One is not offered a beautiful princess and half a
‘Lift the latch,’ called out the grandmother, ‘I am too weak, and cannot

full of bread, and the loaves cried out to her, ‘Take us out, take us
tapping at the door; and the frog came once more, and said:

them back to the nest, and put them under the bird without its knowing
not do it, you shall lose your life.’ Thereupon he went away, and when
condemned to death for their wicked deeds.
dead girl’s head and dropped three drops of blood on the ground, one in
wolf, what bird is it that sings so well?’ ‘That is the King of birds,’
Now there was once a maiden whose name was Jorinda. She was prettier
as I? My stomach remains empty, and I must tie myself up if I am not to
the fisherman, and found his wife standing before the gate of a great
chain in his right claw, the shoes in his left, and the millstone round
palace, and as he felt weary, he lay down on the grass and fell asleep.
into the dishes, and left all the ashes. Before half an hour’s time all
Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
  How comes it that alone you sit?

he alighted again in front of the goldsmith and sang:
called in: ‘Old Growler, why have you insulted my children? You shall
and the others have been mocking him, and crying: “Here comes our
white covering over the grave; but by the time the spring came, and the
the doctor was sitting at table, and when the peasant saw how well he
the dirtiest work; but she was allowed to carry home some of the meat

like bird, sitting by the Red Sea; jump on to his back with thy beloved
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact


the breast of one of the giants. For a long time the giant felt nothing,
crackle in the pan; and Catherine stood by with a fork and turned it:
a box on the ear.’ So little Marleen went, and said, ‘Brother, give me
without looking about him went to the shabby inn and rested there all
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
kids saw that, they came running to the spot and cried aloud: ‘The wolf
announced to the Bear, and all four-footed animals were summoned to take
something to eat and drink.’

‘dost thou not feel that wisdom comes unto thee? Rest there in peace,
on, and followed her sisters to the feast. But they did not know her,

to recover himself, he was drowned.
a mighty whirlwind blew over the waves and rolled them about, but he
came to the bed, he saw that the wolf was lying in it. ‘Do I find you
Thereupon he seized them by the throats, put them on the cutting-board
smacked his lips and cried ‘Jip!’ Away went the horse full gallop; and
cat. ‘He is called All-gone.’ ‘All-gone,’ cried the mouse ‘that is the
seeking for?’ ‘I seek for my brothers, the seven ravens,’ answered she.
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
were gone, he climbed to the top of the mountain, and when he had sat
to the well, and let him down in a basket. He found the blue light, and
The old woman then mixed a sleeping draught with their wine, and before
to draw the clothes off him and empty the bucket full of cold water
Next morning when the cows were being driven out, the little peasant
remembered that there was a sack of fine meal bought at the last fair,
that everybody may go in and out as they please--however, as you have
land, and the children heard their mother saying at night to their
the ground.’ The witch fell into a passion, let him fall again into the
mayor, I would get into the barrel at once.’ The peasant said: ‘If you
that she had heard in the night, she was so frightened that she fell off

here,’ and they went home and told the cook that they had seen nothing
Just as he was falling asleep, he heard two men passing by, chatting
out new ones. The next day the little man came, and she began with
door to his wife: ‘Wife, come out; here is a bird, come and look at it
to put the leathern saddle upon it. ‘I will give him the good one,’
he had had enough he wanted to get away; but he had eaten so much that

forth from its throat. On this the huntsman asked the king if he would

down from his shoulder, and said to him: ‘You will never see your father
these skins?’
As it drew towards the appointed hour, he went outside into the garden
  My sister loved me best of all;
  Till the silvery locks
the little man, ‘the first little child that you may have when you are
down the tree, but found no one upon it. And when they came back into
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
christening today!’ and running after him he took him by the sleeve, but
and brought her also back again. ‘This is not the true bride,’ said he
her scissors out of her pocket, and cut off the end of the beard.
is mine.’ Then the king put in a word, and said, ‘Each of you is right;
be a sickle must bend himself betimes.’
somewhere.’ Then she said: ‘Well, Gretel, enjoy yourself, one fowl has
dark, so that they were forced to go their way without their prize, as
give myself up to be eaten; if you are wanting food I have enough to
the cat threw all the ashes in his eyes: so he ran to the kitchen to

things!’ said the husband. ‘How can you say so?’ said she; ‘I am sure
down by the hearth, and let the children amuse themselves with him as
‘Well,’ said the old witch, ‘we have got the bird’s heart, but not the
separate. On hearing this, the man said, ‘I will give you something in
The poor soldier fell without injury on the moist ground, and the blue
knows him; but because I am poor, everybody forgets me.’
recognized his voice and waited, and when he came up to them suddenly
said to the young lady, ‘There is a young man coming out of the wood who
  Is lovelier far, O queen! than thee.’
hand, and said: ‘What does my lord command?’ ‘Strike down to earth that
When the brother heard of all this, and how a turnip had made the
half the pot of fat. ‘Nothing ever seems so good as what one keeps to
She carried him down, and then with loud screams she hastened to the
sulky as could be.
have been all over with her, likewise, if, by good fortune, a tailor who
the place where golden snow falls, and people carry the gold home in

and everything was got ready with great pomp and splendour for their
But when the proud princess perceived that he was not her equal in
The man promised to do all that she wished, but the raven said, ‘Alas! I
sleeping draught; and when Lily came and began again to tell him what

first; ‘Pearls and diamonds,’ cried the second. ‘Now, child,’ said he
I wish for eleven girls exactly like myself in face, figure, and size.’
feather,’ and as soon as Dummling had gone out she seized the goose by
and bellow, till all the birds of the wood flew away for fright; but the
and she had neither rest nor ease, till at length one day she stole
you wish to go and visit her my lions shall lead you thither.’ Then she
with one blow, and in it caught the old man’s beard. ‘Now I have you,’
beautiful birds in them.
no more about it, but go and try! I will be king.’ So the man went away
of beans and wanted to cook them. So she made a fire on her hearth, and
to another kind of salad, and scarcely had he tasted it when he felt
you are so much heavier for me to draw up than the young king’s son--he
passed on. But the huntsman had heard all they said; and as soon as they

prisoner go, and danced also, and by the time he had played the first
then she said to herself, ‘The steak is almost ready, I may as well go
alive! how it grieves me that I had him killed!’ ‘He is still alive,’
see to it, master,’ answered Gretel. She killed two fowls, scalded them,
heart leaped for joy, and she was so overcome with her happiness, that

that, two great black cats came with one tremendous leap and sat down

away as softly as possible. However, the duck, who slept in the open
old woman was the queen herself; take care another time, and let no one
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.
and throw you out whatever you want.’ ‘That’s a good thought,’ said the

dead man, however, got up and cried: ‘Now will I strangle you.’
out of each little plate their sister ate a small piece, and out of each
wash himself; but there the duck splashed all the water in his face; and
who was so serious that no one could make her laugh. So he had put forth
little man?’ asked Rose-red. ‘You stupid, prying goose!’ answered the
a good night singer, and may make your fortune as a musician.’ The cat
himself down, and said, ‘I am very much tired; sit by me, I will rest my
and snoring: take away the horse quietly, but be sure to put the old

man to whom he had given his cake. When he heard what Dummling wanted,
went into the room, she had such a strange feeling that she said to
will strew ashes along the path.’
The old man led him back into the castle, and in a cellar showed him
‘That is the wretch!’ and caused live coals to be brought, and these the
the boughs, and sang whatever they knew.
wheel-barrow, drove it away, holding it by the string that was tied to
most suspicious name of all! I have never seen it in print. All-gone;
not see it; but her maid saw it, and was very glad, for she knew the
wondered at her beauty: but the king’s son, who was waiting for her,

keep off the cold. I’ll tell you what, I will make each of them a shirt,
crying: ‘That man knows everything!’ Then Doctor Knowall showed the lord

something given me.’ Gretel presents Hans with a needle, Hans says:
invisible, or gave him any form he pleased; and a pair of boots that
he had given to his first bride, and when he looked in her face he
was in urgent danger of being dragged into the water.
eight years had passed over their heads, when the king thought of his
merry day.’ ‘All went off well,’ answered the cat. ‘What name did they
talk with your father, not with you.’ ‘You have cheated and taken in my
day. When night was drawing near, the youth went up and made himself

was so heavy all the time: so she whispered, ‘Frederick, I must throw


their lives they remained close friends, and both studied law at Marburg

down on his head, and killed him on the spot.
horse, and rode away with her. And when they came to the hazel-tree, the
said the cat, ‘how can one be in good spirits when one’s life is in
OLD SULTAN
at home? I will go out into the world and look about me.’
be cold.’ Hansel and Gretel gathered brushwood together, as high as a
‘Father, I have learnt what the birds say.’ Then the father fell into a
up again, with the ball in his mouth, and threw it on the edge of the
on the cloak which the old woman had given him, and followed them;

pass; and the queen had a little girl, so very beautiful that the king
goes.’ So they went on into the wood, till at last they came to the

When it was bed-time, and the others went to bed, the mother said to the
sorry for the poor children, all the same,’ said the man.
the king ordered his soup to be brought in; and it pleased him so well,
and threw him downstairs. Just go there and you will see if it was he.
fox was changed into a man, and turned out to be the brother of the
and as he had yielded the first time, he had to do so a second time
Gretel thought: ‘Something might be wrong, it ought to be tasted!’
The second day she began with all the comical names she could hear of,
and cried: ‘Hansel, we are saved! The old witch is dead!’ Then Hansel

miller. ‘I have three tiresome beasts here,’ said the other; ‘if you

groom awoke and cried out so loud, that all the guards ran in and took

come every evening to see if you have obeyed my order.’ The boy placed
at their father’s sickness; and as they were walking together very
window. The sparrow now hopped in, perched upon the window-seat, and
However, the king hoped still to save his dear child altogether from
a tooth in his head, and the thieves don’t care for him at all; to
him and scratched his face with her long bony fingers; how a man with a

been men whom the tailor had killed, and began to feel a little respect
you want to go very fast, smack your lips loudly together, and cry
to rest upon when she should be weary. Thus she went on and on, and
the wind and bad weather. Once in summer when he was working alone in
round him, and found that the path was closed behind him, so that he was
hand over his eyes to keep himself from being blinded by the sun.
A little while after, Catherine thought the door was still very heavy:
dismissed with no better answer.

answered he, ‘how should I know? Those fellows up there did not open
scarcely touched the sexton when they were held fast, and now there were
at the door.
themselves. But they sat there and did not stir, and the fire caught
which sang so delightfully that they stood still and listened to it. And
not cook it, but Cat-skin did.’ ‘Then let Cat-skin come up,’ said the
length a man came from a distance and wooed her, who was called Hans;
In a village dwelt a poor old woman, who had gathered together a dish
stolen. Then he was told about Doctor Knowall who lived in such and such
because she was her stepdaughter. The stepdaughter once had a pretty

turned into stone as the tablet had foretold.
standing by this window and looking down into the garden, when she saw a
began to lick at it, and licked the top of the fat off. Then she took a
‘but how shall I treat them?’ Then the huntsman said, ‘Give the old
and was about to sit down again by his fire, out from every hole and


were thrown down, the washing-bowl lay broken to pieces, and the quilts
but the evening came, and he had not found the first hundred: so he was
Frederick of course made no objection to that plan, and they set off
him all the tale, from beginning to end, word for word. And it was very
from the wall, went into the cellar, and tapped the lid briskly as she
This was long before daybreak; and then they bustled away as quick as
  And took my bones that they might lie
The king said to his daughter: ‘I will proclaim a great feast that shall
wife, and should be king after his death; but whoever tried and did not
  Blackbird, thrush, and chaffinch gay,
a drunken soldier soon came by, and rode his horse against her stall,

one for yourself when we are gone, we will leave one behind us in the
Once upon a time the king held a great feast, and asked thither all

and sang:

waited till evening came. And as he was cold, he lighted himself a fire,
outwitted them, wanted to take vengeance on him, and accused him of this
“Jip!”’
quite safe; and the eldest went up to her own bed and clapped her hands,
village. But the heat grew greater as soon as noon came on, till at
him, and rushed directly on the tailor, as if it would gore him with its
So he set out and followed the same road which his brother had done,
there, and bring him away one of the finest flowers.
  Hie away! away!’
him. After a short time the dead man became warm too, and began to move.

very willingly, I know; go along and try!’
He prayed, he wept, he sorrowed, but all in vain. ‘Alas!’ he said, ‘what
that all the girls were to be present at it, and sing in honour of the
your golden plate, and sleep upon your bed, I will bring you your ball

taking it for granted that she was safe at home in the dirt.
and the head answers:
could only get in’; so they consulted together how they should contrive
These people had a little window at the back of their house from which
have found his old shape again.
the moon, but the moon was cold and chilly, and said, ‘I smell flesh

pearls; and therefore he too was turned into stone.
back and a fiddle hung round his neck. Then the judge sent out his
be godmother. She went straight to the church, stole to the pot of fat,
so Chanticleer built a handsome carriage with four red wheels, and
After this he went back to the castle, where he found everything he
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
show his skill, and guess what was beneath the cover. Actually, there
world,’ she spoke to him in a friendly way. ‘Good day, dear Mr Fox,
She did not feel that she could trust him, and she could not look at him
far off, for one day as she was travelling on she missed the white

was fond of him, and had told him what to do; for this fairy knew what
unfit for work. His master therefore was tired of keeping him and
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
‘Look, mother,’ said the man, ‘at the beautiful bird that is singing so
pitchers fall into the well, and they stood very foolishly looking at
that lay by his side, ‘this is a most capital stone; do but work it well
there! The house-door stood wide open. The table, chairs, and benches
alive!’ Then the man said, ‘I knew not that the garden belonged to you;
‘You may return to your home, I need you no longer, and you will not
dwarfs, that lived among the mountains, and dug and searched for gold.
 ‘Open the door, my princess dear,


of her: and she ran as fast as she could into her little cabin under

asleep, and the next morning the man came to him and wanted to have

Gretel. ‘Good day, Gretel.’ ‘Good day, Hans. What do you bring that is
dismissal, for he dreaded lest he should strike him and all his people
it is to be emperor!’ ‘Husband,’ said she, ‘why should we stop at being
for that she could do no such thing as spin straw into gold: the chamber
all out at the gate together. When they had got on some way they came
The children answered:
comfortably. It was not long before they grew quite at home, and played
hick hack, hick hack,’ the mill went ‘Click clack, click clack, click
He said nothing, but took hold of them and led them to a beautiful
cut off the best part of it. I cannot let myself be seen by my people.

‘Who has been eating off my plate?’ The third, ‘Who has been picking my
and it would have gone badly without me.” And then he was still more
and remained a whole year with the master. At the end of this time,
delicate head out of the window, and called: ‘Come up here, dear woman;
the shepherd, ‘if you are so fond of her, I will change my cow for your
mischief; so her gift was, that the king’s daughter, when the spindle
cried:
long they were all lying on the floor of the cellar, fast asleep and
They will ask what you do here, but give no answer; and let them do
happy, and love it dearly.’ Now--odd as you may think it--it came to
by sheer force, my death would have been certain,--I should have been
she had looked about and searched every hole and corner, and found


the same good counsel. But he was thankful to the fox, and did not
and got into a ship and sailed away over the wide sea, and where they
the best place in the court that he could wish for. The servant refused
did you get the ring that was in the soup?’ asked the king. Then she
little cap of red velvet, which suited her so well that she would never
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.
He will never be good for anything as long as he lives! He who wants to
and the other into his handkerchief; and, having done this, they crept
fireplace: they then went to the pin and needle, who were fast asleep,
put it into her hair to try it; but the moment it touched her head,
witch had to drown. Then the children went home together, and were
the piece of gold glittering underneath; the same happened next day, and

that he thought he had never tasted any so good before. At the bottom
the embers of his fire again and warmed himself. And as he thus sat, his


king, and for once he was able to deck his table with game, after having
fled and sprang into a chapel which was near and up to the window at
should I care for? I have saved up my three years’ earnings and have it
and attendants in a row, each one smaller than the other, from the
horse stands in his stall: by his side will lie the groom fast asleep
now and then a white feather fell, and showed her the way she was to
This, too, happened as the fox said; they carried off the bird, the
The father, the mother, and little Marleen were having their dinner.
to me,’ said the other; ‘I am very poor.’ Then the man pitied him, and
leading the way; and thinking he had no time to lose, he jumped up, put
‘But what are we to do now?’ said the coal.
but the king did not know, and said: ‘He followed the enemy, and I did

said she. So her little friend took the ring, and began to work at the
  Take us across on thy back so white.’
given up, and went on with him towards their home.
one foot and a sock on the other; he still had on his apron, and still
who caused great mischief with their robbing, murdering, ravaging,


By the time she came back, Tom had slipped off into the barn; and when
the others. But the old woman called out, ‘Come and eat your suppers,
        
could not get over the tree, and remained hanging in the branches, so
see what he can do with you.’ The youth was sent into a strange town,
forest, and had quite forgotten the little tailor, when all at once he

Gretel.’ ‘What did you take her?’ ‘I took nothing, but had something
a fiddle that will set everyone dancing that hears me play upon it; and
dread lest she should awaken them. But God helped her, so that she
throat.’ And when he had spoken these words, the old man was changed
opinion that if war should break out, this would be a weighty and useful

she again slipped away from him, though in such a hurry that she dropped
devoured the grandmother, and that she might still be saved, so he did
and threw them in Gretel’s face. Then Gretel became angry, tore herself
flowers, her father said he would try what he could do. So he kissed all

off a little branch, and there came a loud noise from the tree. Then the
‘It belongs to King Grisly-beard; hadst thou taken him, it had all been

vermin,’ and began to cut them down. Some of them ran away, the others
rolled it up in a little cloth, and went on again until she came to the
shown my children three golden apples which he has won.’
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
down and died: but Snowdrop and the prince lived and reigned happily
The following day the king’s daughter asked the gardener about his
into the next town, and I will soon find you plenty of food.’ So on they
you; can I do anything to please you?’ ‘Yes,’ answered he, ‘that indeed
every time that you come, and I will weave a ladder with it, and when

to work like a servant, but before she went away, she hid her shoe under
man, and came secretly to the king’s court, and was scarcely within the
said, ‘I will have the fairies also, that they might be kind and good


and the snow had all disappeared; then another month went by, and all
the sparrows who were chattering together, and telling one another of
to him. He met the fox, who gave him the good advice: but when he came
1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
until at last I got to the bottom; I pushed the bottom out of the
given him for his own.
Early the next morning, as she and Curdken went out through the gate,


and patch me the pantaloons, or I will rap the yard-measure over your
that,’ answered the tailor, ‘they have not bent one hair of mine.’ The
opposition to the enemy, who was superior in strength and had a mighty
down, gave it into the tailor’s hand, and bade him eat. But the little

his trouble.
and rode to the court of her former betrothed, whom she loved so dearly.
kingdom, which they reached safely; and there they lived happily a great
Then the king said to the young princess, ‘As you have given your word
know he has fallen asleep, and will not be able to set me free.’ She
from the fire, and she tried the lips of all three; but at last she sat
a sackful of cunning. You make me sorry for you; come with me, I will


The king, however, would no longer believe the lion.
into your coffin again,’ and he took him up, threw him into it, and shut
one of the peas either rolled or stirred. Then they went away again,
view.’ They have been an essential ingredient of children’s reading ever
into his kitchen; and was still not sorry for what he had done, but sat
back, took him up, set him on his shoulder, and went with hasty steps
no one else was at hand, the cook ordered him to carry the food to the
him. So the little tailor was and remained a king to the end of his
The second brother also met a man, who, when he found out what he was
comb. And when they took it away she got well, and told them all that
THE ROBBER BRIDEGROOM
unlucky wretch that I am!’ said she; ‘would that I had married King
work that they used to cut out, and then went and hid themselves, to
came in very early that evening; and when they saw Snowdrop lying on
and told her she might go. The lazy girl was delighted at this, and
But just as the wedding was going to be solemnized, old Mr Fox stirred
had worn the day before. And when she came in it to the ball, everyone
and floated away with the water. Now she was so frightened that she did
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
horse and put the three prisoners back into the water. They leapt with
A merchant, who had three daughters, was once setting out upon a
it farther.’

does not easily see daylight again.’
fetched other older maps, and they went on looking for the castle until
removed he must give him the princess.
  Today I’ll brew, tomorrow bake;
speak, and said to him: ‘Wish for a beautiful palace for yourself with
deal better. But to make up for your loss, I will give each of you, as a

with her, and no one else: and he never left her hand; but when anyone
said the little old man; ‘it is the Water of Life. If he could have a
bird and the horse given him for his own.
heart,’ said the cock: so they all four went on jollily together.
white beard hung down. Then the youth seized the axe, split the anvil
an emperor, he can make a pope: go and try him.’
your journey.’ But he begged so hard that the king let him go; and the
her, the kingdom should be his, if he would come back in a year and
But she comforted him, and said, ‘Dear father, the word you have given

remained childless.

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
he had left his two brothers. And there he heard a great noise and
and out of pity he took him and wrapped him in the skin. But as the
will try my fortune,’ said he, and the next day when it began to grow
Then the wedding was solemnized with young Mr Fox, and there was much
their drawers and boxes, and took out all their fine clothes, and
said Frederick, ‘and bring with you something to eat.’



stones in his stomach knocked against each other and rattled. Then cried
when he saw it he could not deny himself the pleasure of tasting it,
‘Blessed be the day and hour when I found you; cannot you contrive to
far side, but when she was asleep, the other pushed her gently to the
The bird came down, and all the twenty millers set to and lifted up the

dead they cut open his body, and set Tommy free. ‘Ah!’ said the father,

‘Good day, Gretel.’ ‘Good day, Hans, What good thing do you bring?’ ‘I
longer.’ Then she was so thirsty that she got down, and knelt over the
him. Then he led her to a chamber in his palace where there was a great
house, and in every corner there stood chests full of pearls and jewels.
were crabs. The doctor looked at the dish, had no idea what to say, and
see the gallows, the man said to him: ‘Look, there is the tree where
away. When the water in the kettle was boiling, the cook went into the
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
  Turtle-doves and linnets, fly!
you know, goes out every morning very early with his wife into the
upon as guilty and executed. In vain he declared his innocence; he was
  Will have her own will,
little hill. The brushwood was lighted, and when the flames were burning

thing do you bring?’ ‘I bring nothing, but would have something given.’
was homesick, although she was a thousand times better off with Mother
The frog called after her, ‘Stay, princess, and take me with you as you
was in the palace gardens; and bade him make haste, and draw what he
rang the bell, went home, and without saying a word went to bed, and
Hans takes the needle, sticks it into a hay-cart, and follows the cart
Gretel,’ said Hansel, ‘do not distress yourself, I will soon find a way
and walked round and round about the circle, but could not find any way
this way, and trample me down.’

forest to fetch wood.’ She gave each a little piece of bread, and said:
snake, lying coiled up on a cushion in one of the chambers.
wolf’s belly; and yet here I am again, safe and sound.’
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
opened it and saw that it was Hansel and Gretel, she said: ‘You naughty
chain, and I will sing it you again.’
heard the voice of the enchantress she unfastened her braided tresses,
 ‘The wind, the wind,
be fat.’ Hansel, however, stretched out a little bone to her, and
quickly, and get another, and seek out the prettiest and rarest.’ ‘Oh,
that he may not come in.’ Soon afterwards the wolf knocked, and cried:
  And mind the words that thou and I said
carter talking to the horse, but yet I can see no one.’ ‘That is queer,

who were sitting behind, were too heavy, and fell back into the water
miller’s daughter again with a fresh task. Then she knew not what to do,
there by the fire, and each of them had a roasted sheep in his hand and
The princes rowed them back again over the lake (but this time the
counsel, he determined to try his luck: so he went to the king, and said
add to them. Then all anxiety was at an end, and they lived together

me an apple.’ The thought came to her that she would kill him. ‘Come
they walked together in the wood.
and asked: ‘Do you know where my husband is? He climbed up the tower
in.’
her again.
Rapunzel had magnificent long hair, fine as spun gold, and when she
long time, but at length, as he did not return at all, she was sad, and
to grow unhappy. She could not at first tell why she felt sad, but she
as before; but to her great grief it still said:
1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
victory,’ said he, ‘but a strange knight who came to my assistance with
his voice soft with it. Then he came back, knocked at the door of the
One day he took her to walk with him out of the town, and showed her
pope? there is but one pope at a time in Christendom.’ ‘Husband,’ said
replied:
anyone.
looked round and saw a great bed in the corner. ‘That is the very thing
willingly watch three nights in the haunted castle.’
the eldest son said, ‘I will soon find it’: and he went to the sick
bridegroom this night in his chamber, and I will give thee the dress.’
THE JUNIPER-TREE
On the second day Iron Hans equipped him as a white knight, and gave him
pick-axe exactly above her, which the masons had accidentally left

trip and skip, and drag their feet, and the peas roll about.’ The king
a piece right across the loaf and spread the jam over it. ‘This won’t
  And took my bones that they might lie
plate to him, but the king’s son threw off the quilt, and said: ‘You old
therefore, he let himself down again; but when he had clambered down the
are?’ replied the soldier, quite astonished. ‘I must do everything you


What does your wife want?’ ‘Ah!’ said the fisherman, ‘she says that when
‘Where does your grandmother live, Little Red-Cap?’
capered and sprang about, as merry as could be; till at last they danced
not long before he was so much in love that he thought of nothing else
and spat, and scratched at him. This frightened him dreadfully, and away
had pity on him, and exchanged him for the gardener’s boy.

looking like a king’s daughter, the king went up to her, and rejoiced at
night-time, and the way led through the churchyard, or any other dismal

walked into the kitchen to light his pipe at the fire, but when he
out for yourself.’ And as he bent over to do so, the evil spirit urged
as they were such handsome fellows, he said: ‘Yes,’ and that he would
the sparrow, ‘you shall have some more if you will; so come with me to
the village where the two inns were; and in one of these were people
way, he came to a large city. There was a great noise and crowd in
and he fell quite gently to the ground amongst the greens and cabbages.
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
the south all was red, as if a dreadful storm was rising. At this sight
yonder cord, and then thou shalt enter.’ So the student let him down,
and as all cannot have the young lady, the best way is for neither of
and everything was so grim and mysterious. At last I went down to the
crafty manikin had just before scattered peas in every street there

said: ‘I may not, I have a sore head.’ She, however, caught at his
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
  My sister loved me best of all;
 ‘She sits upstairs in her room,

well called out as she saw her:
It was the middle of winter, when the broad flakes of snow were falling
‘The better to hug you with.’
came into the possession of young readers. This was in part due to Edgar
so beautiful. Then he called his son and told him that he had only a

did not hurt one hair of his head. Next morning, to the astonishment of
all exactly alike: but he was told that the eldest had eaten a piece of
he came to the golden road, and his horse had set one foot upon it,
few blows at the tree he struck himself in the leg, so that he had to be
to speak and said: ‘Do not be afraid, I will do you no harm! I am
with them. The man upstairs waited a short time, but as his wife did not
States without permission and without paying copyright
the dwarf, and was going to carry him off.
you will become invisible, and you will then be able to follow the
coward, and returned the duck’s blows with his sharp spurs so fiercely
was not long before a stable-boy came out of it, who led a horse that
And the horses shook themselves, and the dogs jumped up and barked; the

down the bank, and took the princess, the horse, and the bird, and went
happened. But Falada saw it all, and marked it well.
furious anger, sprang up, called his people thither, and said: ‘This man
and stone till their hair whistled again.
are ripe.’ So she shook the tree, and the apples came falling down upon
servant threatened to kill her mistress if she ever told anyone what had
the first string, he started so that he lifted one leg, from pain, but
agree to this, I will give you your life, and the rose too for your
said, ‘that can never be true; he must be a fine king truly who travels
‘What one is, the other should be likewise, the two go together; what’s
with it in her hand. Poor Jorindel saw the nightingale was gone--but
screamed out: ‘Keep away; for goodness’ sake keep away!’ But she did
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
When he had finished, he flew away. He had the chain in his right claw
seven of them running behind Dummling and the goose.

my tail up quite high, all is going well, and you must charge; but if I
  Hearken to me!
Then he got hold of the fur and tore it off, and her golden hair and
  And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!’
Thus the unhappy traveller was again forsaken and forlorn; but she
 ‘O man of the sea!

A king and queen once upon a time reigned in a country a great way off,

The next day the wife said to the shoemaker. ‘These little wights have
making sport of her. However, he kept fast hold, and led her in; and the
Hans takes the bacon, ties it to a rope, and drags it away behind him.
a peasant woman down the street crying: ‘Good jams, cheap! Good jams,
cried out and said, ‘Little men have sharp wits; he shall part the goods
Now the forester had an old cook, who one evening took two pails and
your wife.’ The princess begged and prayed; but the king said, ‘I have

standing in the market, how they will laugh at me!’
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
nothing and only sighed. Then they brought him a wooden bowl for a few
we should have fine weather for our washing-day, and yet my mistress and
in his hand, and there is no longer anything hanging on to it. ‘Good
‘I counsel you first to take away her magic wand, or we cannot escape

asked what was the matter. They told him that their father was very ill,
and pearls and diamonds they had asked for: and on his way home, as he
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
be.
it.’ ‘That was ill done, Hans, you should have carried the bacon on your
and said: ‘Fox, you are the most cunning of all animals, you shall be
a distance, and when the peasant looked at the priest, he recognized the
seat. The king, her father, seeing that something had frightened her,

eat. Then she gave him the dry bread. ‘Where are the butter and cheese?’
your own affairs, busybody!’ said the prince scornfully, and rode on.
other, and they moved backwards and forwards, he thought to himself:


and came at last to a dark forest, through which he went on walking for
journeyed till she came to the world’s end; then she came to the sun,
presents Hans with a knife. ‘Goodbye, Gretel.’ ‘Goodbye, Hans.’ Hans
and all lost their lives in the same manner.
this tree there is a chaffinch’s nest; tell me how many eggs there are
broken his word, and bad luck would follow. He did all he could to
‘what fears we have had for you!’ ‘Yes, father,’ answered he; ‘I have

sort?’ said he, and could not help admiring his own bravery. ‘The whole

by wild beasts, but by that wretch the old cook, who tore me from her
branches; while the cock, thinking that the higher he sat the safer he
demand. Before the wedding the tailor was to catch him a wild boar that
this time were used to his ingratitude, went on their way and did their
Cat-skin again. When she went into the kitchen to her work, and began
wishing to prepare it in the same way as the sausage, by rolling in and

in his house, and no one could have concealed himself in it. He was
Then she gave him a cloak, and said, ‘As soon as you put that on
close by, and the miller, you must know, had a very beautiful daughter.
chin that almost met one another.
The day came that had been fixed for the marriage. The bridegroom
curious to know what such a wonderful bird might be, and would have
wolf greeted her, and said:

charming that he stood still and listened. This was Rapunzel, who in her
from, cried out, ‘Who calls me?’
Hans stood looking on for a while, and at last said, ‘You must be well
  Where the seven dwarfs their dwelling have made,
It happened that soon afterwards the mother sent the two children to the
your fill, you can also go on your four legs; I don’t care to drag you
they stood before her window, and every year bore the most beautiful
the side of Little Red-Cap, and then he said: ‘See, Little Red-Cap, how
‘The old woman hid me behind a large cask, and scarcely had she done
king thought something had happened to his dear huntsman, ran up to him,

The children, however, were still awake and had heard the conversation.
A large hedge of thorns soon grew round the palace, and every year it
castle hall, and placed himself by the side of the queen, where no one
both felt sad, they knew not why; but it seemed as if they were to be
‘That is my own ring,’ she exclaimed, ‘and if that is so the man must

laid aside my red coat, and set to work, tilling the ground. I have a
  And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!’
the children were nowhere. Then said they: ‘There is nothing to be done
shall be choked.’ Chanticleer ran as fast as he could to the river, and
step she took. She walked the whole day until she came to the deepest,
he ran against him and pushed the ghost down the stairs, so that it fell
could no more be seen, the juniper-tree stood there as before, and the
simple-hearted; so he took out threepence, and gave him for every year’s
her: ‘Who knows? They are perhaps not coming at all, and have turned in
his own liking. The donkey laid himself down upon a heap of straw in
men had already fallen, and little was wanting to make the rest give
status with the IRS.
men fell down, one after the other; they brought nine dead men’s legs
the river will give me water, and the water I will carry to Partlet, who

of water, and hastened to get away in time. Just as he was going out of
stoop down by the water and drink; I shall not be your waiting-maid any
like the stars: and his hunters were told to hunt out all the beasts in

sorely, and he answered: ‘I have such a great thirst and cannot quench

times every day she went to it and cried; and soon a little bird came
would take in such a troop of vagabonds, who ate a great deal, paid no
learnt, from their discourse, how that is to be done.’ Then all who
  Sadly, sadly, would she rue it.’
learn nor understand anything, and when people saw him they said:
roast meat in the tiled stove.’ ‘Upon my word!’ cried the miller, and
her also that her future child was to be killed by the pick-axe, when it
had given her, a loaf of bread in case she should be hungry, a little
ever so small--nay, if it were no bigger than my thumb--I should be very
to go with him and bring back the stolen money. ‘Oh, yes, but Grete, my

THE WATER OF LIFE
said,’ But she did not stop to hear a word.

fairy too, who was fond of the princess, and helped her mother to watch
An aged count once lived in Switzerland, who had an only son, but he
do in the same way?’ The dog said he was willing, and they jogged on
such a thing.’ ‘I am king,’ said Ilsabill, ‘and you are my slave; so go
father’s house. ‘You can crawl through the drain into the kitchen and
gardener to keep watch all night under the tree. The gardener set his
princess: ‘I feel it very warm too.’
clothes for him, for his old ones had been quite spoiled on his journey.
malice, and said mockingly: ‘I have them, they shall not escape me
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
the earth was green. So the months followed one another, and first the
he smiled, and said: ‘He has just come home on his three-legged horse,
up his bow and shot him straight through the heart so that he fell down
the wolf has swallowed me.’ And his father said, ‘Heaven be praised! we
take care you don’t let a hair fall into it, or you will run a chance of
touch one fly’s leg, no, not if we were dying of hunger, until you have
exchange for those three things; not money, for that I have not got,
When they came to the king’s daughter, she had twelve suits of
thought: ‘The other must go down too, or else master will observe that
give me the sword.’ ‘No,’ said they; ‘not unless you undertake not to
down, and dived deep under the water; and after a little while he came
‘Wife,’ said the man, ‘go into the garret; on the upper shelf you will
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.
asked. Round went the wheel again to the old song, and the manikin once
her bosom, got upon her horse, and set off on her journey to her
The king then took pity on him, and said, ‘You shall be poor no
birth, she scorned him, and required him first to perform another
bed and swallowed up Red-Cap.

out at the back door into the garden, and cried out:
‘Nay,’ answered the bird, ‘I do not sing twice for nothing; you must
princess, who had been lost a great many many years.
my kingdom.’
Then came the queen of the bees, who had been saved by the little dwarf
the bread, and all his kingdom ate of it. And he lent the king the
Then the gold was brought up and the wedding celebrated; but howsoever
said the wolf, ‘before whom we must bow down.’ In reality the bird was
her; but she flew away, and the blow fell upon the poor horse’s head
the frog, whom she had quite forgotten. At this sight she was sadly
am I to do?’ he asked. She replied, ‘Go farther into the wood until you
The children, full of pity, at once took tight hold of the little man,
art only meeting thy reward’: so he played up another tune. Then the

glasses, chairs, benches, the table, and at last the walls, without
off, master grinder! you seem so happy at your work.’ ‘Yes,’ said the

and has brought something back with her for each of you.’ But the wolf
 ‘Cock-a-doodle-doo!
bear’s hole and cried: ‘Growler, you are to come to the nest to my
The eldest brother set out, and sought for the pearls the whole day:
hand, carried him into a little stable, and locked him in behind a
But the moment he kissed her she opened her eyes and awoke, and smiled

he reached his mother’s house, and told her how very easy the road to
Then he yoked his oxen, and drew the turnip to the court, and gave it
they, ‘to stay with a man who kills seven at one stroke.’ The king was
my son, try as I will I can get nothing into your head. You must go from
he came back she had bound up her hair again, and all was safe. So they
Soon afterwards he came to a city, where a king ruled who had a daughter
And now what happened? The sausage started in search of wood, the bird
wanted.
  Underneath
One day her mother said to her: ‘Come, Little Red-Cap, here is a piece
run-away soldier? Yet will I be compassionate, and take you in, if you
had planted; and on the branch sat a little dove singing:
The huntsman thanked her, and thought to himself, ‘If all this does
but his pail fell into the well, and he after it, and as he was unable
that it had not the strength enough to draw it out again, and thus it
A certain cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse, and had said so much
no light of day ever peeped in, and said, ‘Cat-skin, you may lie and
down, and lay on him like a mountain. But he threw quilts and pillows up
it. They were obliged to run after him continually, now left, now right,
what he had heard from the frogs on his way, which had so affected him,
village, the small peasant also came quietly in, driving a flock of
butter and cheese: I’ll bring him a bag of fine nuts, and the vinegar,
and that they were afraid nothing could save him. ‘I know what would,’

‘Nay,’ answered the bird, ‘I do not sing twice for nothing; give me that
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
and then I am sure I shall sleep soundly without rocking. How happy my
seemed to be summer-time and in the other half winter. On one side the
go--you must not stay here--you must travel on with your husband.’
he named a certain king’s daughter who was to be his wife. The son was
TOM THUMB
you will know him at once by his rough voice and his black feet.’ The
once when they were out hunting, news came that the king’s bride was
if she pursues us.’ The maiden fetched the magic wand, and she took the
house, and called: ‘Open the door, dear children, your mother is here
company, and said the wedding was at an end, for that he was come back
THE BLUE LIGHT
fighting, and the boar lay down behind a bush, and the wolf jumped
 ‘Round about, round about,
tied them all three to a rope and took them along with him till he



armies, and the bread will never fail you.’ Then the prince thought

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
announced. There stood the bear, and he called the fox before him
‘Very well,’ said she; and they set out: and as Frederick walked the
out with the lions; and everyone was overjoyed to see her, for they had

him that he wounded the youth’s leg with the point of his sword. The

mournfully in the garden of the palace, a little old man met them and
nothing was left to him but one small plot of land; and there he often

intending to wait until Red-Cap went home in the evening, and then to
rose.’ Now it was no easy task to find a rose, for it was the middle
HANS IN LUCK
he was fast asleep. When the twelve princesses heard this they laughed
‘it is all in vain. If someone would but tell me!’

saw the clothes lying for them, they laughed and chuckled, and seemed
care of my geese; she may go and help him.’ Now the name of this lad,
that, you shall have my fifty talers. Just come back to me early in the

his footing and began to slip, and slipped down from the roof straight
As Heinel came near his castle he heard the sound of merry music; and
to the father; ‘have you no other daughters?’ ‘No,’ said he; ‘there is
will warm you a little,’ and went to the fire and warmed his hand and
as usual:
he was bent upon going.
and let me have a draught of your wine; I am so hungry and thirsty.’ But
her mother, rejoicing to think that she should now go to the ball.
hold the spoon, and spilt the broth upon the table-cloth or let it run
pick-axe will fall on his head and kill him.’ Then said the boy: ‘What
their mouths, and were so stupid that they let the few old rags which

took it and drank it; and thus, though they kept on giving her meat and
all; and the worst of it was, that more and more hay was always coming
and the ridges of foam as he cried out:
the dog answered that he found false credentials on the sausage, and

‘Very well,’ answered she, ‘I’ll carry the door; but I’ll not carry the

  And took my bones that they might lie
never thought of the frog, but ran home with it as fast as she could.
 ‘Turn back, turn back, young maiden fair,
beautiful than any painter could have painted her. The two played

and cried out as before:

her, and brought her whatever she wished for.
knocked at the door, and cried, ‘Fine wares to sell!’ Snowdrop looked
tailor into the bargain: he behind, was quite merry and happy, and
in the leg; how a black monster stood in the yard and struck him with a
their child, now grown up to be comely and fair; and after all their
‘Who has been handling my fork?’ The sixth, ‘Who has been cutting with
 ‘Take care of this handsome coach of mine,
met him too at the same spot in the valley, among the mountains, and
the next shop, and I will peck you down another steak.’ When the dog had
had laid by the way, and said they would give him the duck, who was in
Sultan has saved our child from the wolf, and therefore he shall live
of wine, of such a kind, that however much he took of them, they would
fireside, while his wife sat by his side spinning. ‘How lonely it is,
and before he went his mother gave him a beautiful sweet cake and a

wild man, do not go away, or I shall be beaten!’ The wild man turned
followed instantly to get them back again.’
she laughed at him, and said he should never see her again; then she
for him as he could possibly use at the royal table. So he summoned all
you both fall into the sea.’

When night came she wanted to go home; and the king’s son followed here
the table was properly laid, and took the great knife, wherewith he was
child the name of Rapunzel, and took it away with her.
THE DOG AND THE SPARROW
danger of death. If the tailor conquered and killed these two giants, he

bring?’ ‘I bring nothing, I want something given me.’ Gretel presents
said, ‘I do not know why it is, but though I am rowing with all my might
listen to it for a long while, for he was very fond of his son, and
at once!’
Meantime the old king was lingering on in daily hope of his son’s
Then he looked down, and saw that the blood streamed so much from the
with you?’ And now the old cook herself got on her legs, and went with
she went upstairs to her room, and took a white handkerchief out of
standing by the sounding hole on the other side of the steps, and as he
caught fire and began to blaze. The bird hastened to fetch some water,
tread on Partlet’s toes.
shall enjoy that.’ ‘Yes,’ answered the cat, ‘you will enjoy it as much
earth, and you say there must be a queen.’ When the courtiers heard this
The father sighed, and answered him: ‘You shall soon learn what it is to
They had not gone far before they saw a cat sitting in the middle of the

Now when all were gone, and nobody left at home, Ashputtel went
mother will be! Talk of a pig, indeed! Give me a fine fat goose.’
out a hen and twelve chickens of pure gold, that played about, and then
listened. Meantime the thieves were frightened, and ran off a little
that if I would promise not to tell anyone, and she said that early

looked up at the wall, and after much peering here and there, saw a
up my mind to do it out of necessity. My wife saw your rampion from the

mother, packed up a great many costly things; jewels, and gold, and
if you like, but I’ll not draw.’ While this was passing, a duck came
water. When they could see to the bottom there lay a wild man whose body
he had found them they only laughed at him, to think that he, who was so

But about midnight, when the robbers saw from afar that the lights were
palace. Then they showed her a little corner under the staircase, where
the king must marry again, that we may have a queen.’ So messengers were
locks out, but she cried:
of fire. ‘Then I will go out too,’ she said, ‘and see if it will lighten
thee thy life!’ With that he jumped up in a rage, seized his hatchet,
is big enough; just look, I can get in myself!’ and she crept up and
entreaties that he would take something, he lifted the glass and drank

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
‘I can do better than that,’ said the youth, and went to the other


how to fly. Sit down beneath it, and wait till night comes, and you will
the next room; and hearing a noise she raised herself up in her bed and
open the door. The thieves ran off as if a wolf was at their tails: and
to make you my wife.’ So they were married, and lived together very
The proposition pleased the two others, and they set out on their way
You shall become a black poodle and have a gold collar round your neck,
the sparrow, as she alighted upon the head of one of the horses, and

and when I asked him to give me the apple, he did not answer, and that
fight with; and every time she limped, they thought she was picking up
her father and mother took care not to speak of them before her: but one
but in the middle of the stairs he trod on the gown of the youngest
noble art, for nothing can be hidden from you, when once you understand



on pain of death, and the queen herself was to take the key into her
fisherman, ‘are you king?’ ‘Yes,’ said she, ‘I am king.’ And when he had
wait outside. He had not long to seek. The unicorn soon came towards
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
dangerous thing for you, for if it is discovered, you will fare ill.’
3. HOW PARTLET DIED AND WAS BURIED, AND HOW CHANTICLEER DIED OF GRIEF

king: and when she came he said to her, ‘Who are you?’ ‘I am a poor

little window. When the enchantress wanted to go in, she placed herself
blow with his paw, and he did not move again.
fellow bird, to whom he boastfully expatiated on the excellence of his
his paws white for him. Truly, this is the way of mankind.
He now had a little daughter born to him; the child of his first wife
 And took my bones that they might lie
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
tailor. At night he went to bed with his wife at the usual time, and
be invited twice, but got up and ate. After this the miller saw the skin
said the man, ‘why should we wish to be the king? I will not be king.’
him at midnight, and bade him arise and go up into the church tower and
‘Well,’ said little Marleen, ‘I will go out too and see if the bird will
more beautiful.
THE QUEEN BEE

the king, and begged for their dismissal. ‘We are not prepared,’ said
and the bear heard a bird singing so beautifully that he said: ‘Brother
the ship; and I do all this because you once were kind to me.’ Then he
but still he had not enough: so he took the miller’s daughter to a yet
while later she called her husband, and said to him, weeping. ‘If I
1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
THE LITTLE PEASANT
I’ll behave well. Goodbye, mother.’ ‘Goodbye, Hans.’ Hans comes to
false stroke, and the axe cut him in the arm, so that he had to go home
afraid that he went to a wise woman and asked for her advice. The wise
as blood, and as black as ebony. At last a prince came and called at the
Hans was delighted as he sat on the horse, drew himself up, squared his
one as quickly as possible, and he will carry you over the waters to
a firm step, and when they walk over peas none of them stir, but girls
 ‘Falada, Falada, there thou hangest!’
‘Alas, wife!’ said he, ‘cannot you be easy with being pope?’ ‘No,’
them a little, the cat, seeing something move, and thinking it was a
had wished it; for, not long afterwards, she had a little boy, who was
‘These are far better than pebbles!’ said Hansel, and thrust into his
darkness. ‘I shall still be able to find my way out,’ said he, and felt
There was once upon a time an old fox with nine tails, who believed that
revenge. So she cried out, ‘The king’s daughter shall, in her fifteenth

At the birth of her first little child she was very glad, and forgot the


what she asked: but when the prince went to his chamber he asked
this pretty flower; and eight long days he sought for it in vain: but

‘My darling, this is only a dream.’
with me,’ she said, and she lifted up the lid of the chest; ‘take one
Hans went into the stable, cut out all the calves’ and sheep’s eyes,
bread, meat, and wine, which although he had eaten and drunk of them,
draught, he would have slept soundly enough.’
the cat, ‘he has only one.’ ‘Then I will not have him.’
joyfully, and said, if he would set her free from the spell that bound
night, over field and grove--hast thou nowhere seen my white dove?’

  Will you be my guest for supper?’
him over the font at the christening. Let me go out today, and you look
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
parson; the miller’s wife received him well, and said: ‘My husband is
their faces will be black, and they will be dressed in chain armour.
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
went thither, and found the roast meat. The peasant made the raven
into a cage, and hung her up in a chamber in the castle. There were
Every morning she went with the child to the garden where the wild

and whispered in his ear, ‘Take the money, father, and let them have me;

courtyard and the garden are a great deal too small; I should like to
our sashes for us, for we are going to dance at the king’s feast.’

tell you why.’ So Lina said, no, she would never repeat it to anyone,
  Let Curdken’s hat go!
him, it would have gone to his heart still more than it did. The wedding
bar of the tune, all were dancing together--judge, court, and miser, and
and see her; and they cried out with wonder and astonishment and brought
International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

THE TWELVE DANCING PRINCESSES

that, she flew away again, and revealed everything, down to the minutest
‘Ah,’ answered he, ‘let mercy take the place of justice, I only made
So the lady stole it away, and he never found any more gold under his
So each brother went his way; and as the eldest was hastening on a man


The next morning he came to the eldest and took him to a marble table,
brought me an apple from the Tree of Life.’ The youth did not know where
piece of wood she had lost, and put it in the door and opened it.
daughter may be as white as that snow, as red as that blood, and as
soon came to the seashore; and the water was quite black and muddy, and
by their nest, and throwing out their young ones. ‘Out with you, you
‘Whither away, Hans?’ ‘To Gretel, mother.’ ‘Behave well, Hans.’ ‘Oh,
shoe. It was found at the soldier’s, and the soldier himself, who at the
the flower, and it sprang open; so that he went in through the court,
loud as he could.
The king was greatly delighted to see all this glittering treasure;
with the sack of meal that we got at the fair, I upset the jug: but the

any rate he had had his revenge.
clothes; and when he saw a beautiful woman at the door, he took her
buttons!’ said they: ‘let us have a look at them.’ ‘Go into the garden
children.’ The woman, however, would listen to nothing that he had to
through the pigeon-house and on to the hazel-tree, and had there taken
and pillows were pulled off the bed. She sought her children, but they
he worked and worked away, till he made a hole large enough to put out
1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

hair. All this the old king saw: so he went home without being seen; and
labour.’ Then there was great rejoicing made; but the horse would not
Then she took her little lamp, and went into her cabin, and took off the
had seen and heard. They were both very unhappy, but agreed to make the
 ‘My mother killed her little son;
have got a long way off, you shall still not escape me.’ She put on her
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
against my will, for I always loved you very much. Your wishing-cloak
nigh, she called her only daughter to her bed-side, and said, ‘Always be
hold out no longer, screamed, and put his tail between his legs. When
it was a pleasure to look inside it. In the summer Rose-red took care
said, ‘What will you give me to do your task?’ ‘The ring on my finger,’
trough, so she said to the child: ‘Take the pail, Red-Cap; I made some

the iron door it struck twelve, and the door fell so quickly upon him
The first day she was very obedient and industrious, and exerted herself
her as long as she lived.
so he was to guess which it was that had eaten the honey.
the apples are,’ and he took them out of his pocket, and returned them
waving locks of hair, which were all of pure silver; and when Curdken
called to him for the third time, and as that was also to no purpose,
father she is alive still, and I am her son, and I was not carried away

his pocket and gave her what he had. Then he wanted to go his way; but
Once when they had spent the night in the wood and the dawn had roused
I shall drive there in my carriage at two o’clock in the afternoon for
die.’ The man, who loved her, thought: ‘Sooner than let your wife die,
on till it was midday.
another shop and pecked down some more for him. When that was eaten, the
through, instead of the shower of gold, a great bucketful of pitch came
and his wife said to one another, and was very much frightened to think
ground, and close by the trunk something was jumping backwards and
the promised reward.

fall from one of these great clods, I should undoubtedly break my neck.’
standing in the court below. ‘I brought her with me for the sake of her
out, and you shall bring it up again.’ Next day the old woman took him
THE ADVENTURES OF CHANTICLEER AND PARTLET
as long as his legs would carry him, though he had no hope of finding
After Hans had had her some time, he said: ‘Wife, I am going out to work
dinner-time, he just threw himself into the broth, or rolled in and out
they, ‘she is beautiful indeed, but still ‘tis a pity that her brothers
sprang out one after another, and were all still alive, and had suffered
said, ‘What will you give me to spin gold for you this third time?’
me and take me with you.’ Then they said, ‘Yes, Miss Cat-skin, you will
‘Just go down into the cellar and see where Elsie is.’ The maid went and
the spot where the boat was set adrift upon the wide waters. Then he sat
 ‘Round about, round about,

  Underneath the juniper-tree
became an old woman again. When any young man came within a hundred

the cloak. When therefore she came to the castle gate she saw him, and
great shout, making all the noise he could. ‘Will you be easy?’ said the
Presently she came to the apple-tree. ‘Shake me, shake me, I pray; my
tailor used black thread, all beans since then have a black seam.
across, and then you can walk over on me as on a bridge.’ The straw
passed, there stood the little brother, and he took the father and
THE RAVEN
however, on a glass mountain, and looking up from the foot he saw the
were looking for. They were in truth great rascals, and belonged to that
came out, but that has all passed away; that is indeed a splendid bird,

the peasants cried: ‘We already see the sheep down below!’ The mayor
her a violent scolding, said unkindly, ‘As you have let the spindle fall
and hid herself beneath a leaf of the tree where the password was to be
her like rain; but she continued shaking until there was not a single

and after the feast was over they gathered round in a ring and gave all
song of the bird on his roof. He thought it so beautiful that he got
thorns and bushes laid hold of them, as it were with hands; and there
journey; but before he went he asked each daughter what gift he should

if things promise well I’ll call you.’ So he jumped in; splash! went
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
here, you old sinner!’ said he. ‘I have long sought you!’ Then just as
no one answered. At last, when she came to the youngest, a soft voice
eyes, and died.
same time he seized the youngest by the hand in order to pull her away,
  By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade.’
rock not far away. Immediately they heard a loud, piteous cry. They ran
Elsie awoke and when she got up there was a jingling all round about
had something spiteful to say to every one. The first was too fat: ‘He’s
the evening when we are done, we will come and fetch you away.’ When
will take them, give them food and room, and treat them as I tell you,
amazed to see that the young man had done the task she had given him.
stepped so firmly on them, and had such a strong, sure walk, that not
her wheel; ‘how happy should I be if I had but one child! If it were
One day, as the woodman was getting ready to go into the wood to cut
took with them their little child; and she chose a large hall with thick
and still her master did not come, Gretel looked at the other and said:
  I am boiling warm beer with butter,
make the old woman’s bed properly, and forgot to shake it so that the
steps or so, he heard a screaming and chirping in the branches over him,

and pleasant enough; but when it had gone on a while, and there seemed
When Sunday came, and it was time for the girl to start, a feeling of
the huntsman; ‘I am sure I shall be glad to save you, for I could not
princess given to him again; and after the king’s death he was heir to
Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
mourning was over, he was forced to keep the promise which he had given
out of the wood and run away with it; you must run after me as fast as
Rose-red screamed and sprang back, the lamb bleated, the dove fluttered,
‘There is something for your dinner, but do not eat it up before then,
his bearskin fell off, and he stood there a handsome man, clothed all in
The next morning when Dame Ilsabill awoke it was broad daylight, and
free.’
the robbers. One of them now noticed a gold ring still remaining on
Before long the sexton came by and saw his master, the parson, running
never coming back at all!’ The father, however, rejoiced, for it had cut
be able to find her path again, she filled her pockets with peas and
and the peasant shut the top down on him; then he took the shepherd’s

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
I am a poor soldier, who never could get enough to live upon; so I
heard this plot, and at night when the soldier again ordered him to
rejoiced much at the thoughts of seeing her father once more, and set
fate; when on a sudden the door opened, and a droll-looking little man
never eating again.’
of them caught it but he, only as soon as he had it he galloped away.
the same. But when the princess awoke on the following morning she was
  Let Curdken’s hat go!
there went a report through all the land of the beautiful sleeping Briar
took pity on them, and made use of the butter to grease them all, so
that it snapped off a piece of his heel.

FUNDEVOGEL
There was once a shoemaker, who worked very hard and was very honest:
over his face and eyes. Then he was very angry, and went without his
cat rolled herself up on the hearth before the warm ashes, and the
at all this greatness, ‘are you pope?’ ‘Yes,’ said she, ‘I am pope.’
fire and rest, we will go into the forest and cut some wood. When we
put out the lights, and each once more sought out a resting-place to
and cut it in pieces, and dropped some of its blood on the queen’s apron
you, for they are eaters of men. If I did not take pity on you and save


up in their hands. ‘You little urchin!’ they said, ‘what can you do for
plucked; and the cook in the kitchen was still holding up her hand, as
and weak, and they will do her good. Set out before it gets hot, and
into puddings, and put him in the pot. But Marleen stood looking on,

a large bundle of hay, with the little man in the middle of it, fast

the yard, the dog stretched himself upon a mat behind the door, the
for the tiny fellow. Nevertheless, he wished to try him first, and took
alone by the sea.

and thrown into prison. In his flight he had forgotten the most valuable
now, they will discover us.’ ‘I can’t help that: they must go.’ ‘Well,
countryman began to look grave, and shook his head. ‘Hark ye!’ said he,
‘Little Red-Cap,’ replied the wolf. ‘She is bringing cake and wine; open
shook two dishes of peas into the ashes.


and take a seat by the fire and warm yourselves.’ And when he had said
for themselves, giving him bitter sea-water instead.

not eat anything, at least you might take a draught of wine; one drink

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
towards the spot where Chanticleer had seen the light, and as they drew
Then the princess ran to the door and opened it, and there she saw

Then the wind came and blew away his hat; and off it flew a great way,
was all in vain, he still continued sleeping.
king faithfully, but when the war came to an end could serve no longer
vanished from his mind, had suddenly come home again to his heart. Then
‘But, grandmother, what large hands you have!’
he saw the chest open, and the flower come out. Swiftly he
search of his betrothed bride. So he journeyed on, thinking of her all

that,’ and led the cow-herd before the mayor, who for his carelessness
but shudder!’ said he, ‘but I shall not learn it here either.’ Towards
This had gone on for a long time, when one day the servant, who took
Then he set out: and when he had gone on his way some time he came to a
the birds, but alas! there were many, many nightingales, and how then
together, and loved each other with all their hearts, and the old cook
have something good, to make her stronger.’
knocked at the door as if he wished to be let in. The mother said:


    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
the mother shut her eyes and her ears, that she might see and hear
prince thought to himself, ‘If I bring my father this water, he will
to do it; how do I get in?’ ‘Silly goose,’ said the old woman. ‘The door
‘Do your worst, and welcome,’ said the brute, ‘what harm can you do me?’


found the giants swimming in their blood, and all round about lay the
to be no end of playing or dancing, they began to cry out, and beg him

the fisherman was dreadfully frightened, and he trembled so that his

nothing more to eat, and said, ‘I want you no longer, so take yourself
the wind shakes the fir-apples down.’
little piece of wood, and said, ‘If you have not this little piece of
where he stood. At last the fairy came back and sang with a hoarse
a while, and at length with a loud scream, half a man came down the
mightily delighted.
whistled in the wind.

stole twice or thrice round the house, and at last jumped on the roof,

countryman stopped to ask what was o’clock; this led to further chat;
pigeon-house. But when they had broken open the door they found no one
to the king. ‘If you desire further proof, you may see the wound which
pace.
went to nobody knew and nobody cared.
nap.’ ‘Very well,’ answered the sparrow, ‘do so, and in the meantime
in bed, bring her here in her sleep, she shall do servant’s work for
and when she had gathered so many that she could carry no more, she
dead, and place himself on the royal throne. He thought about it for a
stand there? Can you not come here and help me?’ ‘What are you up to,
always saying: “It makes me shudder, it makes me shudder!” It does not

may have some bread.’ ‘Yes, dear Hans, I will do that.’ After Hans had
worse for a bone or two, or a bit of meat.’ So they walked off together
mouse-hole--and in a snail-shell--and down a cow’s throat--and in the
she knocked at the window and cried: ‘Hans, is Elsie within?’ ‘Yes,’
when she wanted to loose herself and spring away, the fur cloak fell off
lack-a-day!’ said he, ‘how came I to tumble into the mill?’ But he soon
were married that very day, and the soldier was chosen to be the king’s
the leaves, laid them on the dish and brought them to the young lady,
looking-glass, to which she used to go, and then she would gaze upon
stove, the fourth into the kitchen, the fifth into the cupboard, the
little glass?’

would neither give an answer nor go away, I took him for a scoundrel,

and asked the queen how that had happened. She knew nothing about it,
when he tried to wipe himself, the egg broke to pieces in the towel all
in it.’ ‘I will soon seize you,’ said the fiend. ‘Softly, softly, do not
flower; and in the middle of it was a large dewdrop, as big as a costly
water. ‘As soon as you come sailing back in it,’ said he, ‘you shall
time, I will trust to you to give me what I deserve to have for my
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
to make to this, and stood for a time in doubt; at length she thought:
perched upon a gate, and screaming out with all his might and main.
Her husband buried her under the juniper-tree, and wept bitterly for
new condition; he must first find a man who could eat a whole mountain
another apple was gone. Then the third son offered to keep watch; but
fell asleep; and whilst he was sleeping on she took the cloak from
When people are too well off they always begin to long for something
wore his cloak. He took the ring which she had given him off his finger,
Once upon a time there was a widow who had two daughters; one of them
over?’ said Chanticleer. Then said a straw, ‘I will lay myself across,
The golden feather was brought to the king in the morning, and all the
the youngest (who was the beautiful lady) hay three times a day and
‘and my fancy for card-playing has gone,’ and he struck them dead and
In the morning Snowdrop told them all her story; and they pitied her,
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
But this queen died; and the king soon married another wife, who became
returned to her carriage and drove to the golden castle of Stromberg.

his ears, and ran as if fire were burning under him, in order to take
Literary Archive Foundation
  For she’s not the true one that sits by thy side.’
dance was at an end she managed to slip out, so slyly that the king did

beauty shone forth like the sun from behind the clouds. She next opened
Then the fisherman went home; and as he came close to the palace he saw
And as she leaned down to drink, the lock of hair fell from her bosom,
sort of body,’ thought Snowdrop, as she ran down and unbolted the door.
away secretly, taking care not to drink a drop. Then he laid himself
flying round the castle, she opened the window, and said: ‘I wish you
them talk about feasting he was vexed that he had been forced to make
The giant said: ‘If you are such a valiant fellow, come with me into our
together quietly by a brook and taking their rest; and, whilst they
look sharp after me the next time.’ Then they ran at once to the place,
Looking out from his hut one day he saw three robbers fighting and he
and began to look pale and miserable. Then her husband was alarmed, and
was lying among the corn asleep. Then Hans hastened home and brought
is your business?’ ‘I am,’ said he, ‘a messenger sent by the king to
beauty was quite dazzling to their eyes; and she did not seem at all
spinning-wheels be brought into the ante-chamber, and they will go to
much grief reigned in the royal court.
household arrangements. But the other bird sneered at him for being a
to him, ‘The unknown lady who danced with me has slipped away, and I
you, he will tear you in pieces, and eat you.’ Then he told her all that
sheep and looking quite contented. Then the peasants were astonished,
not this much better than the filthy pigsty we had?’ And there was a
dog, so that the wheels crushed him to death. ‘There,’ cried the
best inn, ordered himself handsome clothes, and then bade the landlord
out at the window, and said, ‘Good day, good woman! what have you to

came, he did not give them so much, and said: ‘What can I do with all
When she had gone away, the girl got up and went to her sweetheart, who

that the wheels might not hurt them so much. While she was doing this
comrade?’ asked the tailor. ‘You can certainly throw,’ said the giant,
horse that they are to give you, and put out your hand to take leave of


Curdken.
The maid heard someone standing at the house-door, knocking. She went
where I am unknown?’ As she did not seem quite willing, and as they
when I want to taste one of the old shepherd’s fine fat sheep.’ ‘No,’
confidential conversation together. The servant stood by and listened.
I may?’ said the little man: ‘tell me what ails you, and perhaps you
dressed themselves at the glass, and skipped about as if they were eager
round, and saw that the cart was dripping, and the cask quite empty.
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
watch for the raven. He had not been there long before he began to feel
swiftly as the wind; and if he did this, he was to have the golden bird
name.’
she thought: ‘Suppose I take grandmother a fresh nosegay; that would
Tom, however, was still not disheartened; and thinking the wolf would
beast away and took it to the king.
her, and set herself at the window, and looked about the country and
clave to the roof of his mouth. ‘I can find a cure for this,’ thought
  And her doom is cast,

So the fisherman went. But when he came to the shore the wind was raging
given me.’ ‘What did Gretel give you?’ ‘Gave me a needle.’ ‘Where is the
pursue it; but hardly had the dog run two steps when it stood before a
his heart light amidst all his troubles; so he went peaceably to bed,
be satisfied.’
in which his mother was confined, and as it was so high, he wished for
heart of the mountains. Thus it is with proud silly people, who think
at length said: ‘The jam seems to me to be good, so weigh me out four
  Against my poor bones?
her off too easily: she shall die a much more cruel death; I will eat
made a deep sleep come upon him, and he said to the young lady, ‘Let us
trees that the wheels chafed so: and one of the cheeses ran away so I
‘Whither away, Hans?’ ‘To Gretel, mother.’ ‘Behave well, Hans.’ ‘I’ll
I will perch upon that bush.’ So the dog stretched himself out on the
part in it, oxen, asses, cows, deer, and every other animal the earth
He looked at the workmanship; there was not one false stitch in the
her,’ so he built himself a little hut, and there he sat and watched for
daughter came forward, and threw a golden apple to the knights, but none
feast.
distinguished by some divine and miraculous token. And just as that was
However, she was not dead, but had only fallen into a deep sleep; and
the water, and light the fire. ‘We will bake first,’ said the old woman,


The king liked the advice, and had the spinning-wheels placed in the
  Linger not in this murderers’ lair.’
back at all,’ and he put his hand into his pocket, took out the bird,
it thoroughly, so that the feathers fly about; then they say, down there


  But over the hills, in the greenwood shade,
out here in the wood is merry.’
who looked at her, but most of all by her grandmother, and there was
silenced her. They danced on till three o’clock in the morning, and then
Hans, ‘who would have thought it? What a shame to take my horse, and
ready a poisoned apple: the outside looked very rosy and tempting, but
when they came to the horse, the fox said, ‘You will not be able to eat
pity,--for so handsome a man.’ The youth heard it, got up, and said: ‘It
former one, and slippers which were all of gold: so that when she came
bad hearts.’ Their brother, however, was greatly rejoiced to see them,
was, he began to play, and whether she would or not, she was forced
then together again, as it might be someone clapping their hands for
and immediately a large nut-tree arose from the sea, whereon the griffin
the straw was all spun into gold.
horse, and soon afterwards to take off her royal clothes and put on her
could not refuse. But when she began her song, and it reached Roland’s
and the princess into pieces.’ ‘And if I had not sewn the boat together
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
One fine evening a young princess put on her bonnet and clogs, and went
  My father grieved when I was gone;
still, however, tell you how to find the golden horse, if you will do as
dropped it into the soup; then it was brought to the king, who ate it,
night when all were asleep, and took three of her trinkets, a golden

all their cows, and stripped off their skins in order to sell them in
axe he hewed the horn out of the tree, and when all was ready he led the
counts for nothing,’ and at last he allowed himself to be persuaded, and
everywhere, or you will be caught in a trap some day.’ The good advice
stopped, and she fell down as if she were dead. ‘There’s an end to all
too.’ But he said, ‘Keep it, it will be just the same thing, for I mean
could contrive to get the same good fortune for himself. However, he
brayed, the dog barked, the cat mewed, and the cock screamed; and then
beside him on his horse, and rode away with her homewards.
to say for wonder. At last one took the other aside, and said, ‘That
that I am!’ But the sparrow answered, ‘Not wretch enough yet!’ and
the gloomy night came; the owl flew into a bush; and a moment after the

but the cursed wedge was too smooth and suddenly sprang out, and the
black dwarf. ‘Prithee, friend, why so sorrowful?’ said he to the
forced. So when he went in with his dish, the peasant nudged his wife,
‘This will come to no good, it is too much to ask; the fish will be
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
a clever Elsie we have!’ and sat down by her, and likewise began to

could not set himself free. When the work was done, the fox clapped the
‘Is it JEMMY?’ ‘It is not.’ ‘Can your name be RUMPELSTILTSKIN?’ said the
and cried: ‘We will not open the door, our mother has not black feet
unwilling, she should marry the first man, be he prince or beggar, that
direction he ought to go. He travelled about a long time in search of it
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
their drink in seven little glasses, and set them upon the table, and

took it off, and then his golden hair fell down over his shoulders, and
‘Thou hast shaved many a poor soul close enough,’ said the other; ‘thou
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
off, a king who had three sons. This king once fell very ill--so ill
People are so kind; they seem really to think I do them a favour in
she kissed him, and said, ‘Now you have indeed set me free, and tomorrow
So Master Thumb stayed at home with his father and mother, in peace; for
year learnt what the frogs croak.’ Then the father fell into the most
setting sun shone bright through the long stems of the trees upon
the time when they began to grow ripe it was found that every night one


    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
On the same day that she cast out Rapunzel, however, the enchantress
being with grandmother so much.’ She called out: ‘Good morning,’ but
his custom, before he went to sleep, looked out on all sides of him to
As soon as the dwarf had recovered from his first fright he cried
her distress she jumped into the water after the spindle.

shoes.
am Doctor Knowall,” and have that nailed up above your house-door.’ The
on, and went into the palace, and all the people gazed upon her; and
officers to bring up the accused wherever they should find him; and he
pretty the flowers are about here--why do you not look round? I believe,

the air. The thorns soon began to tear his clothes till they all hung
with her. When she came to the field she said to herself: ‘What shall I
picked up all the millet-seed and gathered them into the sacks.
to get firewood. There they found a big tree which lay felled on the
it. Suddenly the door opened, and a woman as old as the hills, who
the third child. ‘It will not please you more than the others,’ said the
A certain king had a beautiful garden, and in the garden stood a tree
pot; but she stopped short long before she reached the bottom, having
duck is swimming there: if I ask her, she will help us over.’ Then she
They were telling one another of all the places where they had been
give me only a dry cow! If I kill her, what will she be good for? I hate
ordered to watch; and at midnight he too fell asleep, and in the morning
a splendid garden could be seen, which was full of the most beautiful
a century after their deaths. But they were best (and universally) known


note judge, clerks, and jailer were in motion; all began capering, and
what we can do.’ And they agreed to see whether they could not set the
the forest roams a unicorn which does great harm, and you must catch

and he stretched himself by the fire and growled contentedly and
‘my worthy friend, you seem a good sort of fellow, so I can’t help doing
you have a good heart, and are willing to divide what you have, I will
into the world some day, and that he might be killed by the pick-axe, if
his pocket and brought forth the pink, and placed it on the royal table,
carriage of nutshells: and when it was finished, Partlet jumped into
young man refused to do it: so the fox said, ‘I will at any rate give
with a mournful _jug, jug_. An owl with fiery eyes flew three times
‘When you are half-way over, throw it down, and out of the waters will
his face and laughed. Then the father started, trembling with fear and
To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
‘I have shut them up by a charm between two mountains,’ said the dwarf,
glass-mountain; so this faithful little sister took a knife out of her

apples, one and all, are ripe,’ it cried. But she only answered, ‘A nice
the poison was so powerful that she fell down senseless. ‘There you may
said the youth, ‘the bench is mine.’ The man wanted to push him away;
supper to bed; but when he laid his head on the pillow, the pin ran into
following me, I can spring into a tree and save myself.’ ‘Is that all?’
 ‘Thou, queen, art the fairest of all the fair.’
head within the door.
can’t be cured must be endured”,’ said Catherine. So she turned round;
princesses wherever they go.’ When the soldier heard all this good
your pocket.’ ‘Never mind, will do better next time.’
and the moment he had all three in his power, he wished himself at
was a loud noise, which made the youngest sister tremble with fear; but

you never told me not.’

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
his name.’ He gave the order that if the knight who caught the apple,
must all four die of hunger, you may as well plane the planks for our
son wanted to climb up to her, and looked for the door of the tower,
Fundevogel said: ‘Neither now, nor ever.’ Then said Lina: ‘Do you become
  Blow, breezes, blow!

cried out as loud as he could, ‘Don’t bring me any more hay! Don’t bring
  Hearken to me!
  Let him after it go!
you.’ So he rode away, and when he reached his father, the latter was
fairy’s prophecy was fulfilled; the spindle wounded her, and she fell
  Open the door to thy true love here!

pass that this good woman’s wish was fulfilled, just in the very way she
condemned him to give the peasant a cow for the calf which had run away.
sitting in the roots with feathers of pure gold. He lifted her up, and
So now the wretch went for the third time to the house-door, knocked at


till they come, pray step in.’ Now the little dwarf was getting their
old Sultan tomorrow morning, for he is of no use now.’ But his wife
met him, and asked him where he was going, and what he wanted. ‘I am
at heart, and said, ‘She has no doubt been here and driven away again,

it really was, from the contrast of its height with that of an immense
to herself, ‘I know he has fallen asleep.’ She went as before to look
dance, he said, ‘This lady is _my_ partner, sir.’
when she opened her eyes he said: ‘You are mine, and I am yours, and
arrived and also a large company of guests, for the miller had taken
blackened her face and hands, put on the fur-skin cloak, and was
so beautiful that her match was not to be met with on the whole face of
the same coin, and they got into such a rage that they tore up trees and
delivered him up to justice, and he and all his murderous band were
of her, that he one day told the king of the land, who used to come and
the house, and thought to himself: ‘How the old woman is snoring! I must
he was his son, and said, ‘Is there no mark by which you would know me
seized her hand, took her upstairs with him, and married her.

‘Bird,’ he said, ‘how beautifully you sing! Sing me that song again.’
servants?’ cried she. ‘What do we want with servants?’ said he; ‘you
little fish, that had thrown itself out of the water, and lay gasping
seashore; and when he came back there the water looked all yellow and
CLEVER ELSIE
how the poor little sister did lament when she had to fetch the water,
the tree because the huntsmen are shooting down there in the thicket.
thought to himself, ‘I can eat salad, it will refresh and strengthen
came and wept with him over poor Partlet. And six mice built a little
just above the sleepers, and then let one stone after another fall on
little pointed mouth?’ ‘Yes,’ said the cat, ‘he has.’ ‘Then let him come
in which the raven was, lying on the ground, and asked: ‘What have you
at first very unwilling to let him go, but at last yielded to his wish.
but at midnight the wind blew so sharply that in spite of his fire, he
Then the king made it known to all the land, that if any person could
down together and ate and drank, and made merry till quite late into the
side of the river, and rest a while, to eat and drink.’ So he said,
Roland resumed their natural shapes again, and they walked on the whole
strange custom; every day after dinner, when the table was cleared,
letting the bird that is sitting upon them and hatching them know
liking for them continually increased. Now it came to pass that
Dummling went and cut down the tree, and when it fell there was a goose
ashen-grey face became copper-red with rage. He was still cursing when a
Hans. ‘What do you desire?’ asked the wild man. ‘Take back your horse
into the man’s head that he would not go on thus without pay any longer;
When he awoke and found that his lady had tricked him, and left him
‘There, I can help you,’ said Dummling, ‘just come with me and you shall

little, and down it rolled, plump into the stream.
shelter, so I gave him a bit of bread and cheese, and showed him where
and went on eating without disturbing themselves. Hansel, who liked the
for a long time; then as no one would come back he thought: ‘They must be
and made a noise like krr, krr. The miller said: ‘What did he say?’ The
heavy logs; we do not swallow so much as you coarse, greedy folk. I had
fell upon him unawares, so that he did not wake up till the clock was
  And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!’
a white horse. Again he was the only one who caught the apple, and
  If you’re in want of a husband now,
way. Then the youth galloped thither with his iron soldiers, broke like
lost. Thus from being a rich man he became all at once so very poor that
did not give her more than two talers for a skin, and when the others
all that had happened, and when the mother heard how she had come by her

Hans took the stone, and went his way with a light heart: his eyes
did not wish to die of hunger. At first the trade went well; for many
not found the princess out, all your skill would have been of no use;

and shall eat burning coals, till the flames burst forth from your
she missed catching it as it fell; and the ball bounded away, and rolled
their lamps to look at her, and said, ‘Good heavens! what a lovely child
But as she crossed the threshold, crash! the bird threw the millstone
all these were sent from the three kings to whom he had lent his sword
she went to the king, and told him the joyful tidings, and when the time
seeking for gold and silver in the mountains: but Snowdrop was left at
you have, and they catch you, it will be a bad job for you. The least
and jumped like a tailor at his wedding. The mother, however, said: ‘Now
he had sung before the king and the princess, he begged a boon. Then the
general and lead us.’ ‘Good,’ said the fox, ‘but what signal shall we
came near the edge, she stretched down her hand and wanted to take the
time, it happened just the same as before. ‘You must be a witch,
shaking. ‘Can you tell me,’ asked the girl, ‘if my betrothed husband
teach you how people get away from the hounds.’ Just then came a hunter
she heard that the wedding was about to be held. ‘Heaven aid me now!’
satisfied,’ for she thought the angels were there. Said he: ‘I am your
to Mother Holle and said, ‘I am so homesick, that I cannot stay with
be off,’ said Hansel, ‘that we may get out of the witch’s forest.’
golden snake show itself therein, and took care that nothing fell in.
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
The thought pleased the good cobbler very much; and one evening, when
the birds and the flies--man cannot.’ ‘If that’s all your grief,’ said
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
yellow, and with that she died.’
asked he. ‘That I may catch the king’s daughter’s golden apple.’ ‘It is

her head full two yards high; and on each side of her stood her guards
gold was come, he made himself easy by thinking that it was only a joke
little mouse; my cousin has brought a little son into the world, and has
for I have often seen him take some.’
and sewed her together. The bean thanked him most prettily, but as the
she fell on her knees. Presently the fruit became round and firm, and
cart, and pecked out the bung of the second cask, so that all the wine
wife, ‘the poor knave came in the storm and rain, and begged for
bird out of the shabby cage and put it into the handsome one, otherwise
tree. When he was halfway up, he slipped down by a branch, until he sat
to cool herself.
to visit his father, taking her with him. Then he told him everything;
watch what the little elves would do.
his brothers, who had turned robbers; so he said, ‘Cannot they in any
But the dwarf was enraged at his behaviour, and laid a fairy spell
would?’ said the dwarf to the merchant. The old man held his tongue, but
ship; but soon came the dragon roaring behind them through the air; for

the forest, nothing was there but a rose-tree and one rose on it, but
lightnings played, and the thunders rolled; and you might have seen in
it and sat down, and bid Chanticleer harness himself to it and draw her
said to her eleven girls: ‘Show some constraint, and do not look round
He found that the light came from a house which looked smaller than
Then the son sat down on the fox’s tail, and away they went over stock

up, grumbling to himself: ‘Uncouth people, to cut off a piece of my fine
Then the fish came swimming to him, and said, ‘Well, what is her will?

as a savage bear until I was freed by his death. Now he has got his
to pull me in?’ The little man had been sitting there fishing, and
  The shoe is too small, and not made for you!

be silent,’ said the hostess, ‘so many prying persons have already lost
still longer and they yet did not come, he flew into a rage and wished
the water, this time it may pass, but take care you do not again let
shuddering is?’ ‘No,’ he answered; ‘what can it be? My dead cousin was
walk upon the roofs of the town, looked out for opportunities, and then
the eldest still said, it was only the princes, who were crying for joy.
under the three large oak-trees, the nut-trees are just below; you
the evening. ‘I see well enough,’ said the witch, ‘that you can do no


done very little, the fox came and said. ‘Lie down and go to sleep; I
Then there came a wind, so strong that it blew off Curdken’s hat; and
asleep.
told him that he should live with me here, thinking that he could never
them into a box and bury them in the garden; but take care that you
but the other girls came and took her. When it came to her turn to sing,

pig in a wheelbarrow. ‘What is the matter with you, my man?’ said the

Then she went and put the fowls down again to the fire, basted them,
cask, for she saw what a terrible fate had been intended for her by
As he jogged along over the fields, singing and dancing, a little dwarf

to the feast no one knew what to say, for wonder at her beauty: and the
heartily; and the eldest said, ‘This fellow too might have done a wiser

  Moaning in her gloom,
heap of straw, and gave her a spinning-wheel, and said, ‘All this must

dangerous walking it is,’ said he, ‘in this ploughed field! If I were to
  Do you sleep or do you wake?’

am also the soldier that overset your stall. I have done all this only
The wolf and the wild boar were first on the ground; and when they
till their shoes were worn to pieces, and then returned home. However,
which he went up to, and came to a house wherein lived a witch. ‘Do give
the thieves.’ ‘Well, we will try,’ answered he; ‘but take some butter
first published with scholarly notes and no illustration, the tales soon
Dummling went straight into the forest, and there sat the little grey
of it, but sometimes an eagle or a hawk flying over it. This lasted for
‘My darling, this is only a dream.’
short while longer, and he thought of his mother, and wondered if she
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
across a heath upon which huge pieces of rock lay strewn about. There
times with the wand, and it will open: two hungry lions will be lying
people awhile, but not long, a rich and great lord had some money

Judge, grant me one last request.’ ‘Anything but thy life,’ replied the
stable outside, and is to be made fat. When he is fat, I will eat him.’
There was a certain village wherein no one lived but really rich
The king of a great land died, and left his queen to take care of their
out, ‘Stop! stop! Mr Carter, or it shall be the worse for you.’ But the

suppose that they were sadly frightened; and the woodman ran for his
that’s well thought of.’ So up she ran from the cellar; and sure enough

companion against the tree until it shook. The other paid him back in
new wife had two daughters of her own, that she brought home with her;
princess, and she cried out to her sisters, ‘All is not right; someone
three, and bid them goodbye.
say. And when the king asked him. ‘Where do my twelve daughters dance at
to the two inns, his eldest brother was standing at the window where
the father again asked: ‘My son, what have you learnt?’ He answered:
most skilful workmen in his kingdom weave the three dresses: one golden,
listened as they sat and spun. And close by them lay a lamb upon the
that now she should go to the ball. But the mother said, ‘No, no! you
woman looking out, with such large teeth, that she was terrified, and
So twelve fairies came, each with a high red cap on her head, and red
There was a man who had three sons, the youngest of whom was called
up into a tree. Sultan and the cat soon came up, and looked about and
But, try what she would, she could not get the pitch off and it stuck to
he slept like a log. At two o’clock the raven could be seen approaching,
shone brightly, and the white pebbles which lay in front of the house
put it on your finger; whatever you wish it will bring you; only promise
‘Now comes your turn,’ said he to the young tailor; ‘sew the eggs and
road, and fell fast asleep. Whilst he slept, there came by a carter with
then the fat will find me in goose-grease for six months; and then there
he drew out his hatchet and aimed a blow at the sparrow, meaning to kill

*****

and it lay there in deep stillness and solitude, and nothing was seen
The wife of a rich man fell sick; and when she felt that her end drew
worn through as if they had been danced in all night; and yet nobody
the branches, and a golden apple fell into his hand. At the same time
had said ‘good morning’ to her, but with such a wicked look in his eyes,
great comfort on what he had been and what he now was, and was like
instant they stood before him; but the queen wept, and said he had
‘I think,’ answered the bean, ‘that as we have so fortunately escaped
Soon afterwards the wolf came and wished him joy, and said, ‘Now, my

child a little way; the shepherd and his wife screamed out; but Sultan
ground, as if she was quite dead. However, they lifted her up, and when
The second night he again went up into the old castle, sat down by the
same; she could not get his cap away from him, and he would not have her
amused himself by sitting at his kitchen window, looking at what was
While she was speaking the frog knocked again at the door, and said:
which the castle might be disenchanted. The first tablet said: ‘In the
steed, for I am going to the wars.’ ‘That you shall have, and still more
found him sleeping heavily, and all her efforts to awaken him were of no
but he may have been the squire’s for aught I can tell: you know this
turning lathe, and a cutting-board with the knife.’
behind with no goods to share or quarrel about.
roses, white and red.
wood, under the moss, lie the thousand pearls belonging to the king’s
the giant, ‘and I will carry you into the neighbourhood of the castle; I
At last, by good luck, he found a large empty snail-shell. ‘This is
make us a wooden calf, and paint it brown, so that it looks like any
already made the attempt, but in vain; nevertheless when the youth
favourite plaything; and she was always tossing it up into the air, and
broke off a little of the roof to try how it tasted, and Gretel leant
wealth was gone to the bottom of the sea, and how he had nothing left
feared all must die for want. But the prince gave the king of the land
never come my way before.’
turned them till they were round. ‘There, now they will roll better!’
beheld his Jorinda changed into a nightingale, so that her song ended
up, unbound one of them after the other, and brought down all seven.
wedding was held with great pomp, but as the train came from the church,
A long time ago there lived a king who was famed for his wisdom through
had enough now?’ ‘I have had plenty of meat,’ answered he, ‘but I should
When she heard this she started with rage; but her envy and curiosity

When he entered the forest he met a little grey-haired old man who bade

prophesy still more, and said: ‘Thirdly, he says that there is some
I will sleep first.’ Then she lay down among the corn and fell asleep.
invited guests for that day, and that you may not mistake the way, I
were making their feathers smooth with their bills, they were having a
into the kitchen.
least,’ said his wife.
saw them going down through the trap-door one after another, the eldest
the whistling of the wind among the fir-trees.
Then Rapunzel let down the braids of her hair, and the enchantress
watched and bewailed her three whole days; and then they thought they
me one night’s lodging, and a little to eat and drink,’ said he to
stretched out his feet and said: ‘Pull off my boots,’ and then he
house, he said he was his son; but the merchant would not believe him,
the merrymaking was, and called to him to come in; and he could not
The girl passed on, going from room to room of the house, but they were

many years.
‘If you shiver below by the fire, how those up above must freeze and

about, found the way into the room, and slept there by his fire.

get up.’
only replied, ‘You must come and see me next Sunday; I have already
the earth. But this beautiful queen fell ill, and when she felt that her
get nothing; and when you go into her room, don’t forget to say, “Good
cut off. After him came several others; but they had all the same luck,
home. ‘Good evening, mother.’ ‘Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?’
but the boy would not. On the third day the king had ridden out hunting,
But her husband did not care for that, and said she must work, if she
myself useful to him in hunting; so I ran away; but what can I do to
  One and all come help me, quick!
up at the bird, while the sun came shining brightly down on the street.
placed in safety, but it was not long before the cat had a great
Now that very day the hundred years were ended; and as the prince came
were still unconsumed. The giant was pleased with the good cheer, and
his hand; ‘but if you talk of fat, my pig is no trifle.’ Meantime the
the dragon. Wilt thou then forget me quite?’ But the prince all the time
that the poor maiden said that it was only a silly boast of her father,
There was once a queen who had a little daughter, still too young to run
married to a princess, and had a son seven years old. But the merchant
‘Father,’ he replied, ‘do listen to me. I am quite innocent. He was
the other ‘Why are you pelting me?’ ‘I am not pelting you,’ answered
the salad on the bed, the cakes under it, and the parson in the closet
royal court. There was great joy at their coming, and the prince flew to
throughout. Suddenly a voice cried:
only a little dirty Ashputtel here, the child of my first wife; I am
had become of them. So they dared no longer hide the truth from her, but

no stripes’: for he could not find it in his heart to have her beaten.
good and kind to all about her. And the snow fell and spread a beautiful
Long after this, a man was making his way through the wood when he heard
seven to her and said: ‘Dear children, I have to go into the forest,
weep. Then she laid them in the green grass under the juniper-tree, and
while he summoned up courage and went forward. When the giant saw him,
awoke, and all the court, and gazed on each other with great wonder.
shut the oven and let her bake in it, and then she would eat her, too.

horribly, and got on his fire, pulled it to pieces, and tried to put


black as coal flying round and round. Sorry as he was to see his wish
round his head, in order that the man might not see it. When he came he
But when Roland got home, he fell into the snares of another, who so

When he had fallen down again without injury, the giant said: ‘What is
stone with a beam; then the bird put his head through the hole and took
king, ‘they are twelve huntsmen.’ The lion continued: ‘You are mistaken,
tree and sang--
ears, he sprang up and cried: ‘I know the voice, that is the true

other, and in time it will certainly get big and be a cow.’ the woman
He told her that he had been enchanted by a spiteful fairy, who had
And as they came to the wood where the fox first met them, it was so
that the corn was almost all gone. ‘Not wretch enough yet!’ said the
him that she had had a very strange dream. ‘I was carried through the
go home: and the king’s son said, ‘I shall go and take care of you to
with the knife still in his hand, crying: ‘Just one, just one,’ meaning
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GRIMMS' FAIRY TALES ***
with a golden crown upon her head; and on each side of her stood six
her hair as black as ebony; and she was called Snowdrop.
will be choked by a great nut.’ The river said, ‘Run first to the bride,
will do what I wish.’ ‘What do you wish?’ said the soldier. ‘That you
 ‘I am not sleeping, I am waking,
saw what was in his thoughts. In front of the house was a great stone
was travelling in search of work, had not sat down to rest by the brook.
are queen you will not care about toes; you will not want to walk.’ So
she went home the mouse inquired: ‘And what was the child christened?’
laughed, and said, ‘How can that be? you cannot reach up to the horse’s

then the others began pick, pick, pick; and they put all the good grain
and it shall be fulfilled, in return for your kindness to me--you will

branches waved backwards and forwards, first away from one another, and
will think you have saved their child, and will be so thankful to you

wine. So they ate and drank, and after that the little man said: ‘Since
running across the fields after this young man? Is that seemly?’ At the
Defect you cause.
considerably to their stores. The bird’s duty was to fly daily into the
them both with him.
grieved they were to see their faithful Snowdrop stretched out upon the
also liked the idea, and their gossip the carpenter cut and planed
seven hundred of these cages hanging in the castle, and all with
steps and entered the room where the maiden was sitting, with a golden
But the queen, now that she thought Snowdrop was dead, believed that she

they found what ailed her, they cut the lace; and in a little time she
and had lost all his teeth. And one day when the shepherd and his wife
evening, Hans. Where have you been?’ ‘With Gretel.’ ‘What did you take
    
behind the hedge in the shade while they are at work. Now do you lie
great stones with which they filled the wolf’s belly, and when he awoke,
When the wolf at length had had his fill of sleep, he got on his legs,
for me,’ said he, and got into it. When he was just going to shut his
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
and built its nest upon the tree, and talked with her, and watched over
his locks for him finely.


meantime the father was uneasy, and could not tell what made the
he saw the two ducks whose lives he had saved swimming about; and they
be thrown in again and again until you perish amid the waves.’ All the
happened once when the child was a little older, that it was lying in
and he caused a search to be made in his whole kingdom, until eleven

the wolf found them all, and used no great ceremony; one after the
had seen the royal palace, and when a short time had passed, went to it
before Hans knew what he was about, he was thrown off, and lay on his
he sought about in the house to see if there was anything which he could
She answered:
that?’ ‘Yes,’ said she, ‘he has taken the chickens which I was just
the money, and said that they would willingly restore it and give him a

1.F.
out which was silvery as the moon, and put it on; and when she went in,
thought the young man, ‘it is no hard matter to keep that advice.’
But when the king had ordered a feast to be got ready for the third
in the world, that it is snowing; for I am Mother Holle.’ The old woman

a beast like this that stumbles and flings him off as if it would break
Catherine, and they had not long been married. One day Frederick said.
about from town to town as a show; we must buy him.’ So they went up to

it among the grass. The little calf always remained standing like one

fine thing it is to ride on horseback! There he sits as easy and happy
and threw it into the air. The bird, delighted with its liberty,
ready she could not wait till it was carried up, but took a few leaves
undertake to give me whatever meets you on your return home; if you
along with some trouble, she stuck up her tail straight in the air.

Then he sat down by the grave, and wept and mourned, till at last he
if it cost me my life.’ So she went by herself into her chamber, and got
milk-faced things laugh! Ugh! how odious you are!’
of this strange adventure, and went again the second and third night;
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
all the ale that had been saved was set swimming on the floor also. ‘Ah!
This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
cried: ‘Dear mother, I am in the clock-case.’ She took the kid out, and
walked up to them quite merrily and boldly. The giants were terrified,
be. Cut open the dead bird, take out its heart and keep it, and you will
before the squirrel takes them all away.’ ‘With all my heart,’ said
something to eat.’ The huntsman took pity on her, and put his hand in
out to take a walk by herself in a wood; and when she came to a cool
One summer’s morning a little tailor was sitting on his table by the
people laughed at him, and asked him whether he thought roses grew in


went, so that the time might not appear long. When she was below she
twelve beds. There he was to sit and watch where they went to dance;
that is ready I will descend, and you will take me on your horse.’ They
new. And so it came to pass, that the bird, while out one day, met a
So they went on till they came to a great lake; and at the side of the
king, however, would not give his consent, and said: ‘It is not safe in
THE TWELVE HUNTSMEN
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
in the soldier’s house it would go badly with him. ‘Do what I bid you,’
flew, and the blow fell upon the second horse and killed him on the
them.’ The following day the king’s daughter again called to him that he
river; and while he suspected nothing, they came behind, and threw him
dwarf said, ‘Here come my masters.’ When they came in, they wanted to
over thresholds and stairs, but suddenly hop, hop, it turned over upside
With this he went on with his dinner, and said, ‘Little Marleen, why do
through the castle and came at length to a beautiful hall. Around it he
or drink, and die of hunger. But God sent two angels from heaven in the
have mercy on us!’ cried the father; ‘is that all you have learnt? I

him prisoner, and in the morning he was again brought before the court
rid of the hero. ‘Before you receive my daughter, and the half of my
her.’ But the sparrow began to flutter about, and stretch out her neck
wife, must go too.’ The lord was willing, and let both of them have a
whom he had brought with him as a flower in his pocket, and whether they
Then they dressed themselves in the twinkling of an eye, and danced and
‘Let him come in.’ So they brought in a dirty-looking fellow; and when
already seized him, and were holding him fast. ‘Ah, Mr Fox,’ cried the

tasted so good to her--so very good, that the next day she longed for it

‘I have already heated the oven, and kneaded the dough.’ She pushed poor

that was left, and on this they lived.
sits the one who is to blame.’ So they looked up, and espied the wolf
need of salt.
never heard the name in my life, I’ll wager anything it is not in the
deep into the water: and in drawing it up he pulled out a great fish.
of the forest. The dwarf sprang up in a fright, but he could not reach
when its song was over, it spread its wings and flew away before them,
the apple looked so very nice; and when she saw the old woman eat, she
He was as well received as the others had been, and the king ordered

  Let Curdken’s hat go!
she, ‘I will be pope this very day.’ ‘But,’ replied the husband, ‘the


full of gold out with him. The howling of the wild dogs was henceforth
call, but looking round and seeing nobody, they went on again with their
a little grey old man sitting at a table; and they called to him once or
snoring: take no notice of them, but go into the castle and pass on and
But as he drew near home, his little boy was so glad to see him that he
offered to help poor Chanticleer by laying himself across the stream;


that all?’ said the tailor, ‘that is child’s play with us!’ and put his
Gretel. ‘Good day, Gretel.’ ‘Good day, Hans. What good thing do you
When the time came for them to set out, the fairy went into her
give you good luck. There stands an old tree, cut it down, and you will
will take you home myself.’
bitterly, that his heart had well-nigh burst.
dead.’ The horse did as he was told, and the fox went straight to the
him: ‘Be so kind as to fetch me the small bundle I have left lying in
wood. It happened that as the horse was going a little too fast, and Tom
sun shone upon the brilliant stones; they glittered and sparkled with
dead.’ ‘Alas! husband,’ replied she, ‘and a wicked bird has come into
friend came she sat down upon her throne, and called all her court round
not say a word.
Before the castle gate all was as the fox had said: so the son went in
mountain of bread to be baked. The man from the forest stood before it,
was frightened to death, and went to bed and took all the keys with


dead. They were still not safe; for he was such a great beast that in
length agreed that the person should be chosen as pope who should be
  But Snowdrop is lovelier far than thee!’
quacking up and cried out, ‘You thieving vagabonds, what business have

against the window and nibbled at the panes. Then a soft voice cried
nothing that she would not have given to the child. Once she gave her a
away from him all at once into the garden behind her father’s house.
1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
door, and the cat who was servant to Mrs Fox, opened it for him. The
pain was not in his head. He now flew into a very great passion, and,
The second tablet said: ‘The key of the princess’s bed-chamber must be
that the real bride was to help in watching the king’s geese, was
prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier
On a sudden she heard a fluttering and croaking in the air, and the

can you take the king’s daughter a garland of such common flowers? Go
there, he ordered the cook to be sent for. The cook was frightened when
and said it was so dark that they could hardly find their way, and such
it was snapping at one of the apples with its beak, the gardener’s son
me down-hearted?’ said he; ‘I am sound in health and rich in purse, what
till the sausage returned with the fuel for the following day. But the
  Hearken to me!
stopped his fiddle, and left the miser to take his place at the gallows.
listened to it. Once when he was thus standing behind a tree, he saw
that it was quite gilded, and whatsoever pains he took to wash the gold

dragon close by, guarding her.’ Then he went to the king, and asked for
little as he is, we will love him dearly.’ And they called him Thomas
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
on the ear for something he had done amiss, let him go, and both fell
for the little duck; she shall take us across, one after the other.’ The
true waiting-maid what she thought ought to be done to anyone who would
and under every leaf--hast thou not seen my white dove?’ ‘No,’ said the
butcher, as he helped him up. Hans told him what had happened, how he
Meanwhile he had gone outside again and mounted his horse and thrown off

but crab-shells. Every morning the woman crept to the little stable, and

inside together and sat down to their dinners and ate.
kinds of fur, but there it lies fast asleep.’ ‘See,’ said the king, ‘if
There was once a king, whose queen had hair of the purest gold, and was
jewels for the two eldest, but he had sought everywhere in vain for the

go. The water you seek springs from a well in an enchanted castle; and,
than seven, dead and with legs stretched out. ‘Are you a fellow of that
with his shrill voice: ‘Could you not have done it more carefully! You
After a year or two, it came to pass that the king’s son rode through
in it.’ The star-gazer took his glass, looked up, and said, ‘Five.’
and asked how he had fared. ‘Very well indeed,’ answered he; ‘one
Then her friend the bird flew out of the tree, and brought a gold and
the huntsman, ‘I’ll take you there with all my heart’; so he drew her under
said, ‘Prince, whither so fast?’ And the prince said, ‘I am going in
He went inside, and said, ‘See, what a splendid bird that is; he has
off out of my stable; I shall not take you back again until you are

have done, we will come back and fetch you away.’
Gretel.’ ‘What did you take her?’ ‘I took her nothing, she gave me
took hold of my gown.’ ‘You silly creature!’ said the eldest, ‘it is
took her by the hand, and danced with her; and when anyone asked her to
threw it over his shoulder, and jogged off on his road homewards. As he
The third brother met a huntsman, who took him with him, and taught him
After many, many years there came a king’s son into that land: and an
Then he looked around him, and said, ‘I wish I had something to eat, if
was done, and out they flew again. And then Ashputtel took the dishes to
mother likewise: ‘What a clever Elsie we have!’ and sat down and wept
scythe.’ Tom heard all this, and cried out, ‘Father, father! I am here,
calf, Hans?’ ‘I set it on my head and it kicked my face.’ ‘That was
Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
Gretel laid the spit with the fowls on one side, and thought: ‘Standing
He stood on the shore and considered what he should do, when suddenly
thy beauty,’ said the spiteful queen, and went away home.
would be a blessing or a curse to him. One day he said to himself, ‘What
was another knock, and another fox was at the door who wished to woo Mrs
all empty, and still she saw no one. At last she came to the cellar,
After some time he took it in his head that he would travel to Rome. On
of it, where the branches and foliage quite concealed her. ‘Open your
 ‘O man of the sea!
can know, and shall come forth wiser than the wisest of mankind. Here
last gave him such a kick on the head as knocked him down; and there he
a whole year, and every day he saw the king’s daughter driving round her
and again a second time it said these words.’
She took nothing with her but a little ring which her father and mother
as he had said; and they lived very happily the rest of their days, and
quickly.’ As he began to put himself into the sack heels first, ‘Wait a
bridge.’ ‘And there is also no ferry,’ answered Gretel, ‘but a white
she thought he would think of the matter no more. But the king made the
THE PINK
that he did not, for the wild boar had several times received them in
  Will you be my guest, and eat?’
standing there by night like one intent on doing evil. I did not know

so they sat down and made a fire under the very tree where Frederick and

rich present of gold and fine horses for the king; and thought he must
THE FOX AND THE CAT
In this garden stood a fine large pear-tree full of ripe fruit; and

have what I paid it for.’ ‘You must have my consent to that first,’ said
and seizing them by the heads, stuck one into the landlord’s easy chair
touched his tongue than he heard a strange whispering of little voices
‘There, bird,’ said the shoemaker, ‘now sing me that song again.’

wife,’ said he, as he puffed out a long curl of smoke, ‘for you and me
what a bargain I have got! However, I’ll try and set up a trade in pots
that nobody thought he could live. His sons were very much grieved
at last angered her. Her waiting-maid said: ‘I will find a cure for him;
until it was time to set the table. The sausage had only to watch the
He no sooner began to drink of what they brought him, than he felt his
the small peasant, as sole heir, became a rich man.
heard a croaking over his head, and looked up and saw seven ravens as
carter was forced at last to leave his cart behind him, and to go home
stronger than a lion.’ Then he opened the door and turned him adrift.
concealed. With this the doctor was satisfied, and returned to the hall,
any shape she pleased. All the day long she flew about in the form of


cow-house, to try and see what was the matter.

the closet on the porch.’ The miller said: ‘The Devil must go out,’ and
rested for a while, and then carried them safely home. There they found
after them. Then said Lina: ‘Fundevogel, never leave me, and I will
After the space of four years, at the time agreed upon, the four
crowed, the manikin carried her back to the royal palace, and laid her

turned his horse round, and brought the false bride back to her home,
his kinsmen, and nobles, and friends, and neighbours. But the queen
Taylor, who made the first English translation in 1823, selecting about

whetted tusks, and was about to throw him to the ground, but the hero
soldier took as much gold as he could carry. When he was above, he said

only child. This child was a daughter, who was very beautiful; and her
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
his days.’ ‘But what can we do with him?’ said the shepherd, ‘he has not
you the cheek to ask how I am getting on? What have you learnt? How
Then he touched all the other birds with the flower, so that they all
and as she had run a good way and was tired, she walked home leisurely
The forester climbed up, brought the child down, and thought to himself:
and your troops, and give me my three-legged horse again.’ All that he
  Prince! prince! take home thy bride,
and on her dress. Then he carried the child away to a secret place,
nothing, but there was a roaring sound in her ears like that of a
And they stole away out of the palace by night unawares, and seated

The next thing she came to was a little house, and there she saw an old
task, and if he does not succeed he will forfeit his life.’ Many had
and you may have my horse instead’; so she was forced to give up her
she can see the wind coming up the street, and hear the flies coughing.’
with me.’
After a while the cook said to him: ‘It is not well for you to be so
his dearest wife. Thus he roamed about in misery for some years, and at
MOTHER HOLLE
  My wife Ilsabill

Then the wolf was very angry, and called Sultan ‘an old rogue,’ and
without troubling himself about the three girls who were hanging on to
the mother said: ‘Just sit there, you children, and when you are tired
do; shall I cut first, or shall I eat first? Oh, I will eat first.’ Then
once Rapunzel said to her: ‘Tell me, Dame Gothel, how it happens that

transformation came to an end, and a beautiful girl stood before him,
house, and left this charming place’; so he went into the smart house,

and said: ‘Be at rest, you shall have a son with the power of wishing,
went there and found the salad. At last the peasant pinched the raven
the father, ‘it is all the same to me. Here are fifty talers for you.
upon a few planks. So the tailor took his needle, and with a few large
‘That is in return for your services,’ said the old woman, and she shut
living in the tower? Is she still alive, or has she died?’ But the king
just driven the wedge safely in, and everything was going as I wished;
bring the water, to make the fire, to cook and to wash. Besides that,
brother, you found the Water of Life, did you? You have had the trouble
grief and misery.
which you must tomorrow chop me a load of wood, and chop it small.’ The
caught a horse which would carry its rider over any obstacle, and even
for it is more fit for us than for him. He has a bird’s heart that
there arose a quarrel between them; and the star-gazer said, ‘If I had
knit and spin for them, she might stay where she was, and they would
knocking me?’ ‘You must be dreaming,’ said the other, ‘I am not knocking
water?’ ‘Yes, truly,’ replied the peasant, ‘I sank deep, deep down,
and cried: ‘Come, little cousin, come.’ They placed the coffin on the

bring back for her. The eldest wished for pearls; the second for jewels;
he, ‘I will just stoke up the fire a little for you.’ When he had done
threw a stone down on the second. ‘What is the meaning of this?’ cried
and be well taken care of, and have plenty to eat. Wife, go home, and
wanted to go into the forest and fetch some food. So she called all
would give a great deal of money to have such a one.’ ‘If that’s all,’
beautiful meadow, full of sunshine, and with countless flowers blooming
and he had to ring the church bell. After a day or two, the sexton awoke

old king told the boy to go out again the next day: and when morning
her and said: ‘Just wait a little, until the moon has risen, and then we
the ground at the same time. Then the little tailor leapt down. ‘It is
contained. And the willow-wren summoned everything which flew in the
comes out of school.’
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
at last he offered a round hundred of florins that he had in his purse,
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
tallest giant down to a little dwarf no bigger than my finger. And
  Bewailing her trouble so sore,
The huntsman therefore betook himself with his dog to the forest. It was
when any of the princesses had a cup of wine set by her, he drank it
believe that you are girls.’ Then the king’s daughter thanked him, and
cottage, the man said, ‘Wife, we can’t go on thus, spending money and
her way, and told her grandmother that she had met the wolf, and that he
third time then the well is polluted and you can no longer remain with

you do not burn your coat.’ Then she cried: ‘Snow-white, Rose-red, come
a bright fire in one of the rooms, placed the cutting-board and knife

and then the cook said: ‘Early tomorrow morning, when the forester
she threw it into the well, and jumped in herself.
towards them, and said to the musician: ‘Dear musician, may I pluck that
so terribly frightened that they let fall what they had in their
was a boy, who was as red as blood and as white as snow. The mother
went the door with such a clatter upon the thieves, that they cried
flames broke forth from his throat. The king’s son remained there a

a cart drawn by three horses, and loaded with two casks of wine. The
  But it feels like big stones.’
put their feet upon his back and rolled him about, or they took a
therefore stretched itself from one bank to the other, and the coal,
said he. ‘Hurrah! now we’ll have fun!’ He played with them and lost some
1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
should have stuck the needle in your sleeve.’ ‘Never mind, I’ll do
Snowdrop still lived; and she dressed herself up again, but in quite
himself, for his ears stuck out of the bush; and when he shook one of
shudder!’

when he came home, the table was laid, and a good dinner served. He
to cure you of your silly pride, and to show you the folly of your
‘Bless me!’ said he, ‘all the world seems to have a design against my

of this scrape. I know nothing of where the pig was either bred or born;
  Will you beat your wooer dead?’
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
mischance should overtake us here, we should go away together, and
thither, and stayed a year with this master likewise. When he came back
bottle of wine in order that he might not suffer from hunger or thirst.
the purse, put up his fiddle, and travelled on very pleased with his

enough to find it, and have brought it with me; but the heat of the sun
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

at last they found it, but it was many thousand miles away. ‘How shall I
and blood this way!’ so she took herself away in a hurry and came to the
threw it with all his might on the breast of the first giant. ‘That
then he told the king all that had happened, and showed him the three
Ashputtel begged very hard to go, she said, ‘If you can in one hour’s
within that space she was changed into a bird, and the fairy put her
and mounted the tan-heap to await the raven. Suddenly a feeling of
said he would go and search for the Water of Life, and trusted he should
his good luck, and said, ‘I like many things better than money: first, I
easy chair; but, oh dear! the needle ran into him; and this time the
soldier said nothing about what had happened, but determined to see more
  Hearken to me!
for what they had done; and said that he wanted to poison their father,
little’; so they brought the broom and swept the bear’s hide clean;
to get the robbers out; and at last they hit upon a plan. The ass placed
  Till the silvery locks
Tom soon set himself to work to get out, which was not a very easy
straight into the eyes, his long hair fell down from his shoulders into
On this the servants looked terribly uneasy, and made a sign to the
beasts did them any harm, but came close to them trustfully. The little
and said: ‘Leave your bedroom door open this night, and my servants
who asked him where he was going. ‘I hardly know where I am going, or
too.’ And thus she thought she should at least get rid of her. So she
So the fisherman was forced to go; and he muttered as he went along,
her little feet would carry her no further. Everything was spruce and
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
something is missing.’ When the two wings were eaten, she went and
together, and asked what should be done, and all agreed that he ought to

good things to eat and drink, and a coach to ride out in every day: but
In his trouble and fear he went down into the courtyard and took thought
where he stationed himself, and began to wish. Two hundred deer and more
man grinned, and showed his teeth, as if he should have been very glad
last three days; and out of those who came to it his son was to choose
not quite round.’ Then he took the skulls and put them in the lathe and
now let us take a walk a little way out of the town.’ So they both went
  Let him after it go!
and you may pass over upon me.’ But as the mice were going over, the
truth, and was only thinking how she should punish him.
a little time you will come to a tree where you will see nine birds
stomach as they could get in; and the mother sewed him up again in the
  We’ll laugh and be merry,
Soon after this, little Marleen came up to her mother who was stirring
her for his wife; but the king did not like the son-in-law, and made all
short, till at last the seventh suited her: and there she laid herself
soldier’s room, and I had to wait upon him like a servant, sweep his
RUMPELSTILTSKIN
The two children had also not been able to sleep for hunger, and had

a child, and he grows big, and we send him into the cellar here to draw
when it grew dark, they climbed up into a tree to spend the night there.
But the bird set up such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke, and
has thawed and warmed the earth, they break through it, and come out to

electronic works
nigh, Catherine took a nice steak, which was all the meat she had, and
come, with a black cap on her head, and black shoes on her feet, and a
the people around told him that his queen was about to marry another
‘Oh!’ answered the man, ‘that is not my sort of tailoring; come with me,
bring?’ ‘I bring nothing, I want something given me.’ Gretel presents



croaking. He listened to them, and when he became aware of what they
did you not pull the church to pieces, and bring the chandelier home
wonder, and could not take his eyes off them. And on they went, till the
again, he lighted his pipe and summoned the black manikin. ‘Have no
weeping for?’ ‘Alas!’ said she, ‘I must spin this straw into gold, and
task. She went down into the garden and strewed with her own hands ten
such deeds as that, you are no gardener’s boy; tell me, who is your
around, that the queen of a country many thousand miles off sat working
was uneasy and afraid, and on both sides they advanced against each
the flower he held in his hand was his safeguard. He looked around at
and had been a fool into the bargain, and that it was now time to make a
the cask. She was obliged to step over the bodies of the sleepers, who
fortunes; but they soon fell into a wasteful foolish way of living, so
lost to you; you will never see her again.’ The king’s son was beside
and the dragon is an enchanted princess, who seeks to separate him from
bride, and entreated her to return to her own kingdom, for he had a wife
‘Good day, Little Red-Cap,’ said he.

happen, it will be a fine thing for me.’ When he had gone a hundred
to chuckle at the thought of having the poor child, to take home with
After some time he said to her, ‘Tomorrow there will be a great feast in
might carry them away, and had lain down again amid the ashes in her

dark gate of the city, through which she had to pass every morning
finger, and as it was difficult to draw off, he took a hatchet and cut

morning to Snow-white: ‘Now I must go away, and cannot come back for the
opportunity to escape.’
as if he was at home, in the chair by his fireside; he trips against no
caring what he was about, struck again at the sparrow; but killed his
conducted his troop by byways back to the forest, and called forth Iron
him.
sight in the world. And she rose up and drove them before her, till the
again.’
certainly help him; so he went into the forest, and in the same place
The frog said, ‘I want not your pearls, and jewels, and fine clothes;
plan would be much better than either quarrelling or marrying a lady who
 ‘Bride, bride, there thou gangest!

dish of delicate fare, the peasant nudged his wife, and said: ‘Grete,
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
I’ll soon come back to you.’
fairies were in the meantime fulfilled; for the princess was so
could not take his eyes off her, so he stooped down and gave her a kiss.
that the king’s son might some day wish to be with his father, and thus
When he reached home, he knew not upon whom to vent his rage and spite;
give in return more valuable and wonderful than the great turnip; so
do me a very trifling piece of work. Behind my house, there is an old
worry on their account.
The king had these things carried into the castle for him during the
set out in search of the Water of Life before me, and never came back?’
in perfect happiness. My tale is done, there runs a mouse; whosoever
wished that she might become a maiden, and she stood there looking so
drink, her plate and cup were always empty.
not have her named.’ Then the huntsman arose and said: ‘Gracious lord
she stepped back, until at last she was the only one left, and then she

was unable to stop, and laughed so heartily that she burst. It would
himself: ‘If I could but shudder! If I could but shudder!’ Then a man
‘You will take him home with you, and bring him up with your Lina.’ He
 ‘Hither, hither, through the sky,
the good man soon became thriving and well off again.

front, and took for herself the place at the back, close by the wall. In
branches and the golden cup which he had brought with him. Then the king
one chicken in great glee. When one of the chickens was swallowed down,
were both there. The diamonds glittered so on all sides that they were
delight, put out their heads, and cried to him: ‘We will remember you
much the young king loved his wife, and however happy he was, he still
1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
the youth again said quite loudly: ‘If I could but shudder! If I could
So away he was taken; but as he stood on the steps he said, ‘My Lord
treasures which the witch had collected and hidden there, and the
he called out, ‘It is lucky for that you have come, for I have not had
there,’ and they rolled the barrel down into the water.
stirred it up the eggshells flew into his eyes, and almost blinded him.
agreed to do; and Chanticleer got upon the box, and drove, crying, ‘Now,
hearse to carry her to her grave; and when it was ready they harnessed
It befell, however, that a shepherd kept his sheep in the field and saw

heap.
best in the world!’ ‘Besides,’ added the dog, ‘I should not be the

said, ‘Well, I suppose the other will go the same way and find you; he
and found the chamber where the golden bird hung in a wooden cage, and
have of that? he knows I have none, or he would not talk so.’
than the time before. On the way into the forest Hansel crumbled his


     [*] Simpleton
must have run away.’ The peasant, however, said: ‘Don’t tell me
this? Have you not strength enough to hold the weak twig?’ ‘There is no
SNOWDROP
become a church, and I’ll be the chandelier in it.’ So when the three
    Lo and behold!

    
school to the time he went back.
he did not come up to the musician’s price for some time, and he danced
in a dish that was covered, and the lord told the doctor that he was to
before you did.’ ‘No, I don’t know,’ replied the boy, ‘but someone was

were lying close together, and every moment she was filled with renewed
earthenware plates and dishes, and they asked her whether she would buy.
But the dwarf put the same spell upon him as he put on his elder
spoke so kindly, that the girl summoned up courage and agreed to enter
treated me so ill.’ Then the manikin fell on them like lightning,
the little finger of the murdered girl, and as he could not draw it off
into the well you may go yourself and fetch it out.’
should have killed him, they could not do it for pity, and let him go,
will always, like poor puss, alight upon their legs, and only move on so

drunk, he showed each of them to a bed-chamber.
me something to eat.’ The woman said: ‘But I have nothing but bread and
Meantime he began to be tired, and hungry too, for he had given away his
bow and made ready to shoot at it. Then the fox said, ‘Do not shoot me,
the castle and asked for a lodging; ‘I am so tired,’ said he, ‘that I
it. The straw hit on a good idea, and said: ‘I will lay myself straight
what had happened. And Curdken said, ‘When we go in the morning through

  There stay! Oh, stay!
to this. This is not enough!’ Then the uproar began again, there was a
said, ‘Father, give yourself very little trouble about that; I shall be
The king had a son of eight years, who was once playing in the
took to his heels, and off he ran in a very sad and sorrowful mood.
another!’
hidden beneath its wings.
Heinel found himself at the gates in a moment; but the guards would
CAT AND MOUSE IN PARTNERSHIP

he had a mind to see the world and go about a little. When his request
that at all yet.’ The elder brother smiled when he heard that, and
from behind the tree and put the rope round its neck, and then with his
take a bite.’ He laid the bread near him, sewed on, and in his joy, made
Rapunzel’s beautiful tresses, wrapped them twice round her left hand,
eyes open.
see with them as before. He led her to his kingdom where he was
of the little man. Then the giant picked up a stone and threw it so high
dreadfully afraid when I saw you that you had got the squire’s pig. If
was pleased with the thought, and joined the party.
all those wrongs for the love of his father. And the old king was very
christened.
  Prince! prince! look again for thy bride,
Roland, although he had deserted her. Nevertheless, she promised not to
third horse as he done the other two. ‘Alas! miserable wretch that I
about. The two brothers wanted to catch two, and roast them. But the
their lives, it would be a pity and a shame if such beautiful eyes as
in till the blood came, and took her to the king’s son: and he set her
rope, he saw a white figure standing on the stairs opposite the sounding
Heinel, ‘so please to step in here, and let us talk it over.’ The old
fire in the hearth was lighted, and the water was fetched, and at noon,
After this the second son went into the forest, and his mother gave him,
lie down there, stretch yourself out quite stiff, and pretend to be

the sisters plagued her in all sorts of ways, and laughed at her. In the
it. Then she went on sitting, and hatched them: and in a few days they
stretched himself out under the bench, did not move a limb, and behaved
looked for the cock. As he could not find it immediately he said: ‘I
and I have compassion on you. If you do all I bid you, you shall fare
have done them no harm.’ Then the tailor took his needle, and sewed the
good young fellow alighted and killed his horse with his sword, and gave

and poked the ends of their sticks into the mouse-hole, but all in vain;
push her well to the front.’ It would have been all over with the poor
wanting.’
The father again asked, ‘Where is my son?’

Some time after, three grand embassies came to the old king’s court,
wife said, ‘Shall I kill her at once?’ ‘No,’ cried he, ‘that is letting
The poor betrothed girl crouched trembling and shuddering behind the
plenty of money, and plenty of fine clothes to wear, and plenty of


Now when the full year was come round, the third brother left the forest
were standing together before the house the shepherd said, ‘I will shoot
indeed every day when he arose. He heaped up a great deal of gold, and
her bottom drawer, and in it she wrapped all the bones from under the
half-hour; so she had not time to take off her fine dress, and threw her
but the duck did not let herself be enticed, and the old woman had to
with him, the piece of apple fell from between her lips, and Snowdrop
till at last down it fell. Then the dog snapped it up, and scrambled
  She laid her kerchief over me,
was that?’ said the thief, frightened; ‘I’m sure I heard someone speak.’
happens once every few years, you will let me go, won’t you?’ ‘Top-off!
emptied her pinafore until pearls and precious stones ran about the
already up, and when she saw both of them sleeping and looking so
after them, but they were all off; so he swore that he never again
path. Red-Cap, however, was on her guard, and went straight forward on
Then Mother Holle said, ‘I am pleased that you should want to go back
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
Take these and go into the wide world, and tell no one from whence you

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
fell to the ground and broke. The young wife scolded him, but he said
and let the thing be till tomorrow; the finger won’t run away.’
miller’s wife was alone in the house, and said to the peasant: ‘Lay
    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
wounded her, should not really die, but should only fall asleep for a
Fox. He had two tails, but he did not fare better than the first. After
bed-chamber, and took a little knife, and cut off a lock of her hair,
forest and came at last to a house; not a soul could I find within, but

his carcase.’ The lion was greatly pleased, and set off immediately; and

he ran to the back door; but there the dog jumped up and bit him in the
carrying the dish into his room. When he had carefully locked the door,
still prettier one farther on, and ran after it, and so got deeper and
do, he saw the fairy had taken down one of the cages, and was making the
company on the road,’ said she; ‘pray give the girl some work to do,
have a large stone castle to live in: go to the fish again and tell him
tree out of the forest.’ ‘Readily,’ answered the little man; ‘take you
with these words the bride drew forth the finger and shewed it to the
  One and all come help me, quick!
back by the sleeve, and said: ‘No, you must wait until the lord and lady
go and look for some big stones, and we will fill the wicked beast’s
and it was so beautiful that the king had never seen one to equal it.
could not get warm. And as the wind knocked the hanged men against each
Like her sister she awoke in the beautiful meadow, and walked over it
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
toasted a slice of bread first, as nicely as ever she could; and when it
out, and by-and-by the lamb and dove came nearer, and were not afraid
in every direction.
not very like a nosegay. One can walk along at one’s leisure behind that
he saw three fishes come swimming towards him, and they were the very
has not come to that yet.’ Then the king was astonished, but very glad,
his son, went into trade again, and became a richer merchant than
off her beautiful clothes, and put them beneath the tree, that the bird
pearl. Then he plucked the flower, and set out and travelled day and
could bring thither the beautiful princess, he should live, and have the
out, ‘My good friend, I can show you a famous treat.’ ‘Where’s that?’
slipped away again under the rock into his hole. The girls, who by
‘that is soon managed.’ ‘What must I do?’ asked the peasant. ‘In the

  But ate up every one he caught.’
The duck came to them, and Hansel seated himself on its back, and told
their tails quite amicably around him, ate what he set before them, and
two children, saying: ‘Get up, you sluggards! we are going into the
think it is poisoned? Come! do you eat one part, and I will eat the
years. Then she began to be glad, and thought to herself that the time

her fingers very sore. ‘I see this work won’t do,’ said he: ‘try and
leg; and as he was crossing over the yard the ass kicked him; and the
and that your marriage will soon take place, but it is with death that
a pot of boiling water over the fire, and said, ‘Mother, brother is
window; the dog got upon his back; the cat scrambled up to the dog’s

Then he called to the miser, and said, ‘Tell us now, you vagabond, where
and your father has had it, and spent it; so be so good as to let me
running about, and the salad lying on the ground. ‘All right!’ said
 ‘Alas! alas! if thy mother knew it,
things he had, the blue light and the gold, and had only one ducat in
one thing I will grant you; if you fall into any difficulty, come to the

bird, that rose high into the air, singing magnificently, and when it
But the fish said, ‘Pray let me live! I am not a real fish; I am an
coffins,’ and she left him no peace until he consented. ‘But I feel very
and his father in the middle of it. The little black dwarf soon came,
shoe, all but the heel, which was too large. But her mother squeezed it
she knew not whither, till the night came again.
had happened, and said she should not go, let what would happen.

was very angry, and said, ‘Such a cloak is a very rare and wonderful
neighbouring hill, where a shepherd dwelt, and borrowed his old frock,
birches.
cheese.’ ‘I am contented with anything,’ replied the husband, ‘so far as
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
kind office one of her cheeses fell out of the basket, and rolled down
had now no doubt that some frightful hobgoblin had broken in upon them,
But she would not leave him alone, and urged him saying, ‘If you will
send you to a third master, but if you learn nothing this time also, I
here and there about the floor, called and searched, but no cook was to
sausage remained so long away, that they became uneasy, and the bird
easily, he took a hatchet and cut off the finger; but the finger sprang

The second prince set out soon afterwards on the same errand; and when
chestnut-horse.’ When the day came, the youth galloped to the spot, took
the princesses brought him a cup of wine; but the soldier threw it all
see you alive again! Have you learnt how to shudder yet?’ ‘No,’ said he,
be lord of the sun and moon.’ ‘Go home,’ said the fish, ‘to your pigsty
long as I live, I will never by myself leave the path, to run into the
window.’ The servant at once seized her by the neck, carried her to the
and you will learn quite another kind of craft from that.’ Not knowing
light went on burning, but of what use was that to him? He saw very well
are already two too many for me; can you not think of something better?’
star-gazer, as he looked through his glass; and he soon cried out, ‘I
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
calendar!’
wars also, only give me a horse.’ The others laughed, and said: ‘Seek
‘Prince, whither so fast?’ ‘What is that to thee, you ugly imp?’ said
all he wanted, was forced to keep his word; so he married the miller’s
over the hills and far away, so that he had to run after it; and when
he willingly paid a price higher than usual for them; and the poor
longer.’ ‘Why?’ said the king. ‘Because, instead of doing any good, she
At last he dreamt one night that he found a beautiful purple flower,
to his comrade outside: ‘The doctor knows all: we shall fare ill, he
‘Bird,’ he said, ‘what a beautiful song that is you sing! Let me hear it
thought, ‘I may as well be there too,’ and ran to them; but as soon as
arms when she was asleep, and sprinkled her apron with the blood of a
Then the blood ran cold in her heart with spite and malice, to see that

The shepherd said: ‘If nothing more than that is needful in order to be

yourself; your cow will give you no milk: don’t you see she is an old
When they came to the meadow, there lay the wolf by the tree and snored
little good, for he was forced to follow the movements of the fish, and
plan very well; and accordingly so it was managed. The wolf ran with the
They then took leave of the king, and got into the coach with eight

they lived in great comfort, and prospered so far as to be able to add
daughters, one ugly and wicked, and this one she loved because she was
till, long before morning, all was done again.
there. He followed the sound, and at last came to a high tree, and at
Rose-red, do not be afraid; wait, I will come with you.’ Then they
and how she ill-treated all his guests; and he vowed that, willing or

and ate and drank at his ease, and forgot the bird, and his country too.
peasant’s wife, and travelled over the hills to the dwarfs’ cottage,

cannot make an emperor, I am sure, and I should not like to ask him for
evening, mother.’ ‘Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?’ ‘With
down on the other side of the tree, and carried her beautiful clothes
Fox out of the house.
of smoke had ascended, the manikin was there with a small cudgel in his
it is a charm that may be of use to you on the road.’ Then they all took
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
to the sick king, that he might drink and be healed. Scarcely, however,
people.’
and slept until morning came, and their mother knew this and did not
and opened his A B C book, turned the pages backwards and forwards, and
fast asleep, and poured the Water of Life out of the cup, and took it

stretched herself in the sun, and licked her lips whenever she thought
appeared immediately, and said: ‘What do you desire?’ ‘I want a strong
So he was led out to the sea, and a gold ring was thrown into it, before
fur coat and long tail, and are filled with fancies, that’s because
goose for a pig, indeed! ‘Tis not everyone would do so much for you as

Then the prince thanked his little friend with the scarlet cloak for his
When the wolf had appeased his appetite, he lay down again in the bed,
looked round and said, ‘Who has been lying on my bed?’ And the rest came
out upon the high road; but as the weather was warm, they had not gone
Then the huntsman washed his face and went into the court that they

you wear it you will find yourself at any place where you may wish to
Every morning she went into the garden and prayed to God in heaven to
then drove off his cow quietly, and thought his bargain a very lucky

could not go to step forward: and when he thought to have turned his
but if you will love me, and let me live with you and eat from off
  Rumpelstiltskin is my name!”

for him. He inspected each one, lifted it up, put his nose to it, and
deal from one side to the other, they made up their minds to fix their
and scampered away as fast as they could.
wished, for I have not the key.’ Then the wild man said: ‘It lies under
ones. The bear would have liked to go at once, but the wolf held him
howling and wailing that he found it impossible to sleep. He waited till
weeks old. Whoever roasts and eats it will find plenty of fat upon it,
So the lazy girl had to go home covered with pitch, and the cock on the
by the side of the river, at the bottom of the garden, she saw a poor

ease. Then the father took the eggs, and put one on each corner of the
The wolf thought to himself: ‘What a tender young creature! what a nice

‘The old woman is right,’ said the robbers, and they ceased looking for
he shall soon learn what it is to shudder.’ She went out to the stream

the inn, and I will give you a ducat for doing it.’ His comrade ran
  The cat goes up the stairs trip, trap,
never grow less. After that she drew a gold ring, on which her name was
go no farther, and turned back to the mill and begged for shelter. The
then suddenly he felt in his pocket and found his tobacco pipe, which
seven men have married the ropemaker’s daughter, and are now learning
injury. Then she placed the can before her, and turned the tap, and

hidden under the pillow.’ ‘Bless me!’ cried the miller, and went there
lucky for her that she did so, for when she had done the king ordered
and it never saw or felt what he was doing, but kept sitting on at its
ate and drank to his heart’s content. When he had finished his supper
 ‘Oh, yes, my little cat,’ she cried.
thither and brought him what he wanted. As soon as the soldier was alone
her. The miller would have liked much to know the fifth, but the little
 ‘Nibble, nibble, gnaw,
fish, and threw it back again into the river; and before it swam away
another change come over him, and soon saw that he was lucky enough to
carries a wonderful prize; we must get it away from him, my dear child,
but Clever Elsie still did not come. Then the woman said to the servant:
One evening, about Christmas-time, as he and his wife were sitting over
free.’ When the little girl heard this (for she stood behind the door
this purpose indeed have I journeyed forth.’ He let the host have
Tom into his ear; and as he sat there the little man told the beast how
 ‘O man of the sea!
said: ‘We are the three young ravens whom you saved from starving; when
mercy!’ So he turned on to a side path and the ant-king cried out to
the most crafty, flew into the forest where the enemy was assembled,
Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
suffer!’ And as he felt pity for them, he raised the ladder, and climbed
 ‘Turn back, turn back, young maiden fair,
as loud as he could, ‘Very well! hold your hands! here it comes.’
than before: ‘Drink if you will, but I shall not be your waiting-maid.’
  Will have her own will,
together his people, and did not know whether or not he could offer any
have a much larger gift in return; for if his brother had received so
 ‘Thou, queen, art the fairest in all the land.’
everything. All day long she dared not go out of doors, and when bedtime


mischief was in the wind, took himself slyly off, and began his journey
very droll thing to bring away such a fine bird in this shabby cage’; so
stop this. The youth, however, was without fear, and said: ‘Just let me
he was journeying home, thinking what he should bring her, he came to a
at any rate have died together.’ ‘Just keep your noise to yourself,’

away without any anxiety.’ Then the old one bleated, and went on her way


many arts do you understand?’ ‘I understand but one,’ replied the

 ‘O’er hill and o’er dale

that the travellers would be so kind as to give them a lift in their
went her way.
a snug little cottage.’ ‘Go home, then,’ said the fish; ‘she is in the
to him: however, at last he consented, and the young man laid himself
“Ah, you poor child, you are come to a murderers’ den; your betrothed
drops that sprinkled the white snow, and said, ‘Would that my little
he should happen to be sitting beneath it, drawing beer just at the very
subdue the giants, and do not require the help of the hundred horsemen
fatigue came over him, and unable to resist it, he lay down for a little
hole. ‘Who is there?’ cried he, but the figure made no reply, and did
Half-done!’ answered the mouse, ‘they are such odd names, they make me
bedroom to fetch Fundevogel and throw him into it. But when she came in,
water rushing beneath her, she was after all, afraid, and stood still,
The youth sat down in the garden and considered how it might be possible
and went into the forest. And when they looked round they found that
certainly pleased with this good attendance, but still at last he was so

And scarcely had the wolf said this, than with one bound he was out of
door for him, and the bear was hurrying out, he caught against the bolt
‘I went on through the house from room to room, but they were all empty,
you fellow in the corner there, you are growing tall and strong, and you
the sparrow; and perching upon the third horse, she began to peck him
hour below, till I have learnt some little matters that are yet unknown
they were all assembled together, he said to the huntsman: ‘As you are
slippers. But he ran on into the middle of the street, with a slipper on
to dance, for it was a magical dance. The faster he played, the more
the blood ran down. ‘Oh, for heaven’s sake!’ cried the miser, ‘Master!
so she whispered to Frederick, ‘I must throw the vinegar down.’ ‘Pray
promise not to dirty the wheels of the carriage in getting in, nor to
be given to them, whom they at once devour.’ The whole district was in
  Merrily I’ll dance and sing,
the pantry, and ate and drank there to his heart’s content. As soon as
All on a sudden, as she was going out, in came the king’s son in golden
Water of Life before the clock strikes twelve; for if you tarry longer
near, the raven said, ‘I am by birth a king’s daughter, but am now under
once, and fell dead.

with tears in his eyes, for its kindness in taking away his only plague,


against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
the bird is, I will stay with the princess at the door, and you will
father, that brushes against your hat when you turn your face to come
Then they were all placed on sixty country carts, and driven home to the
to the little man: ‘Now go and bind the old witch, and carry her before
‘That is a reward for your industry,’ said Mother Holle, and as she
beautiful that no painter could have made her look more so.
district or country. Then the huntsman promised to procure as much game
opposite shore they took leave of each other, the princesses promising
for the poor little girl. ‘What does the good-for-nothing want in the
money, and get yourself some clothes, and whatsoever else pertains to
At twilight, he clambered down over the wall into the garden of the
  She laid her kerchief over me,
now a good use for it.’ So away she went for it: but she managed to set

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

called the cow-herd in and said: ‘Look, I have a little calf there,
his strength, and seated himself again in his own place. Then still more
the Queen comes,’ Soon afterwards, the Queen arrived with some food in
no use,’ said the thief, ‘if I had not taken her away from the dragon;
different things, roast meat, salad, cakes, and wine.
horn without more ado. ‘Softly, softly; it can’t be done as quickly as

and that he had but to strike it against any door through which he

wasn’t it?’ The giant did not know what to say, and could not believe it

and pulled against the eagle so long that at last he let his booty go.
long years. However, she gave him no rest, and said she would take care
the lovely scenes around him. So he laid himself down, and sleep
for his bride, but the king was vexed that such an ugly fellow, whom
he who seeks them will be turned into marble.’
‘The better to hear you with, my child,’ was the reply.
attempt his life as his brothers had done; so the fox said, ‘Sit upon my
is all this about?’ ‘Why,’ said the cock, ‘I was just now saying that
longed to taste it, she said, ‘I don’t know where the salad can be.’
said always: ‘If I could but shudder--if I could but shudder.’ And this
do you weep?’ asked the maid. ‘Ah,’ she answered, ‘have I not reason to

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.
again, and again they paused and looked about, but seeing no one went
wood, and by the side of the wood he saw a fox sitting; so he took his
seven years are passed away, and there he is fighting with a dragon;
evening he entered a forest. When darkness came on, he saw a light,
I had rather by half walk home; I’ll sit on the box and be coachman,
have been travelling so long that I should like to go into this castle
The servant could now easily prove his innocence; and the king, to make
whole job; all was so neat and true, that it was quite a masterpiece.

stirred.
There was once a king’s son who had a bride whom he loved very much. And
come in but the wolf! They were terrified and wanted to hide themselves.
outside, the mouse thought of their provision, and said: ‘Come, cat,
and would not suffer him to come down till he was heartily ashamed of
there never was such a one seen before, and never will again. At last it
taken to the chamber next to the one where the princesses lay in their
When he came to the outskirts of the forest, he said to his followers:
she had ever heard; and she sent messengers all over the land to find
‘I will go home and ask if it be I, or if it be not I, they will be sure
parted from one another for ever. They had wandered a long way; and when


with soot, but left one of her fingers white.
herself.’ However, the prince would have her come; and she first washed
blood that streamed from it, what a trick she had played him. So he
pillow, for it lay now under the young lady’s, and the old woman took it
right,’ and took it in his arms and carried it to the pasture, and set
with the salad fall on the ground. The messenger sat all this time with

soon come and tear them to pieces.’ ‘O, you fool!’ said she, ‘then we
time, several kings’ sons came, and tried to break through the thicket
the same boat with the youngest. As they were rowing over the lake, the
two and ate it together; and then her heart became full of love for him,
the cat has got it, and will scratch out your eyes as well. Rapunzel is
THE TURNIP
them all they soon picked out all the good grain, and put it into a dish


got with a light heart, free from all his troubles, and walked on till
father, and do you give me your shabby one.’ ‘With all my heart,’ said
should be bought up and burnt. But all the gifts of the first eleven

together. Soon, however, they came to a little brook, and as there was
over her. When she grew up, she was betrothed to a prince who lived a
harness the horse, I will get into his ear and tell him which way to
house was full, thinking they might not be very respectable company:
  Well-a-day!’
the wide world to seek for the golden bird; but his father would not
night which made the flesh creep, the listeners sometimes said: ‘Oh,

clothes, pulled off their shoes, and went to bed. In the morning the
wanted to kill me, but has struck her own child. When daylight comes,

dry well, into which my light has fallen, it burns blue, and never goes
softly,’ said the little old man; ‘right is right; I have paid my money,
in turn, till the night was gone.
dwarf said, ‘Let the poor things enjoy themselves, you shall not kill
one dared to go into it because it belonged to an enchantress, who had
stands, and have brought you the apple.’ The youth, full of joy, set out
from that time forward, as long as they lived.
dolefully, ‘my wife wants to live in a stone castle.’ ‘Go home, then,’
he felt no fatigue. The road led him up a mountain, and when he had
dash his brains out if it were to fall down, so have we not reason to
and you would never come out again.’ The huntsman replied: ‘Lord, I will
‘What has he gone there for, and he never even said goodbye to me!’
coming back. However, at last it was agreed he should go, for he would
remembered her grandmother, and set out on the way to her.
the ground, and said: ‘If you are strong enough, help me to carry the
and on, over sea and over land, till he came to his journey’s end, and
Jump as I did, if you can do it.’ The giant made the attempt but he
as you can, if my master catches you it will be the worse for you; he
also.
‘I see that as long as you remain here you will never be able to set me
her hand on it.
cut willows, and brought them home, and she began to weave; but it made
Rapunzel grew into the most beautiful child under the sun. When she was
What is it that you will not do?’ The peasant said: ‘They want to make
came to the meadow, she sat down upon a bank there, and let down her
met him, and besought him with tears in his eyes to kill him, and cut
From that time forth, no one would any longer venture into the forest,
FIRST STORY
she was very much afraid lest Falada should some day or other speak, and
does nothing but tease me all day long.’ Then the king made him tell him
put it on the fire to fry. The steak soon began to look brown, and to

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
bright and shining and calling to his companions said, ‘There must be a
still said to every one of them, ‘Madam, that is not my name.’
brought her back to him should have her for a wife. Then the four
  So happy I roam,

shoulders, and the cock flew up and sat upon the cat’s head. When
behind three girls. He was astonished at this and called out: ‘Hi!

in an iron cage in his courtyard, and forbade the door to be opened
her left golden slipper upon the stairs.
to leave off; but he stopped not a whit the more for their entreaties,
And the little doves stooped their heads down and set to work, pick,
oneself,’ said she, and was quite satisfied with her day’s work. When
morning”, and don’t peep into every corner before you do it.’
spoke further and said: ‘Father, will you see the maiden who brought me
they sat themselves upon the shoemaker’s bench, took up all the work
guest coming this evening; prepare me two fowls very daintily.’ ‘I will

and at last, when they came to a river, she forgot her maid’s rude
crows, I will journey on, till I find him once again.’ She went on for
rooms all richly furnished, and full of golden chairs and tables; and
and loaf of bread, in order to rid them of their enemy and feed their
meet them, and lifted the maid from her horse, thinking she was the one
loud growling was heard, and a black bear came trotting towards them out
and the head answered:

bear took no heed of his words, but gave the wicked creature a single

head still. I asked her if my betrothed lived here, and she answered,
old woman came by day. The enchantress remarked nothing of this, until
loved them with all the love of a mother for her children. One day she
haunted castle where anyone could very easily learn what shuddering was,
awoke and he was taken prisoner again.
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
out of, they were forced to leave one of the fairies without asking her.
straw, and asked, ‘What is that fellow doing there?’ ‘Ah,’ said the
but the sun looked much too hot and fiery; so she ran away quickly to
rejoicing and dancing; and if they have not left off, they are dancing
took heart and said, ‘As far as the wind blows, and so long as the cock
quite piteously, each out-doing the other. ‘What misfortune has happened
haste, and gathered wild field-flowers and bound them together. When he
knife in his hand had hidden himself behind the door, and stabbed him

ashes, and do all the dirty work.
roadside and panting as if he were tired. ‘What makes you pant so, my
its leg.

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
said the sparrow, ‘and you shall soon have that too.’ So she took him
joyfully received, and they lived for a long time afterwards, happy and
was not to be comforted, and for a long time never thought of taking
that it would most likely be his dog or his cat, or something of that
public support and donations to carry out its mission of

end drew near she called the king to her and said, ‘Promise me that you
all--skin, hair, and everything. The wretch often disguises himself, but
the Golden Mountain; and there he was at once. So the giants were left
sexton, ‘he can learn that with me. Send him to me, and I will soon

change myself into a red stone landmark.’ Then Roland went away, and the
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
that I may never see her any more.’ Then the servant led her away; but
herself: however, it was so big that she could not swallow it, and it
cousin, who died only a few days ago,’ and he beckoned with his finger,
harnessed six mice to it; and then he and Partlet got into the carriage,
them; they will do nothing to harm me.’ As he himself would have it so,
have made a noble prize; with the sword you can at a blow slay whole
youth nevertheless escaped from them, but his horse leapt so violently
the road together somewhere.’ ‘What a goose you are to do such silly
struck the wolf on the head, and killed him on the spot! and when he was
that it was the peasant who was saying this, and answered: ‘That is
to this spot, and in the meantime each must try what he can do for
mother loved her dearly, and was very kind to her. And there was a good
went away to try and find the castle of his friends; and after wandering
she thought, had been dead a long while, she choked with rage, and fell

go along.’ So they did as he wished; and when Tom had taken leave of his
At last he could go no farther, for the stone tired him sadly: and he

other, and went merrily home.
amongst the roots of the tree, and which was full of gold, and lifted it
began to fetch water, and did not go once only, but many times, out
seeking a situation, and offered to go into the dangerous forest. The
‘And I,’ said the mother, ‘I feel so uneasy, as if a heavy thunderstorm
as if she had seen gold shining through it, but she was not sure about
night, till he came again to the castle.
but that little plot of land. ‘Oh, trouble not yourself about that,’
the second time. The children, however, saw them coming from a distance.
and yet we cannot fly! What can we do, but lie here and starve?’ So the
was called Roland, and knocked at his door. When he came out, she said
heaven, you are back again! There is such a storm, it looks as if the
cat had continually to send the suitors away. At length came a young
castle, he welcomed her so courteously that she agreed to marry him. The
‘False and fickle one!’ said he. ‘One indeed came who set thee free, and
not let him go in, because he was so strangely clad. So he went up to a
axe, and gave his wife a scythe. ‘Do you stay behind,’ said the woodman,
he; ‘they forgot to build windows in this room to let the sun in; a
master! pray let the fiddle alone. What have I done to deserve this?’
Then she thanked the moon, and went on till the night-wind blew; and she
wheel again, and whistled and sang:
the rope, tied her to the rack, and scattered some grass for her.’ ‘That
BRIAR ROSE
threw breadcrumbs in, and went to endless trouble to entice the duck;
and passed on. But the sparrow crept under the tilt of the cart, and
said he. ‘Oh!’ answered she, ‘I used the butter to grease those poor
be found. Then some of the wood that had been carelessly thrown down,
replied the soldier, and again this third night the princess was obliged
they bespoke a handsome supper, and spent the evening very jollily.
spoiled my best coat, you see, in this puddle; which, by the by, smells

passed safely over them, and then she and the old woman went upstairs,
and they followed it until they reached a little house, on the roof of
sing:
DOCTOR KNOWALL
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
 ‘What may you be about, Miss Cat?
pocket and cut off her little finger, that was just the size of the
hair, and had put it up again safe. Then he was very angry and sulky,
and it flew wide open at once and he passed through. He mounted the
a fool!’ cried the dwarf; ‘don’t you see that the accursed fish wants

Then she went in to her mother and sister, and as she was so richly

with rich gifts of gold and precious stones for his youngest son; now
would rather you let that alone,’ said the man, ‘for I do not willingly
on her, seized her, and swallowed her down. Verily, that is the way of
cause of it; but the little girl mourned sadly about it every day, and
strange things, but such a monster as this I never saw. Where did you

people grieved for the handsome youth; then they went away, leaving him
  Hearken to me!
a troop of soldiers, and heard the sound of drums and trumpets. And when
Then they all three rode on together, and on their way home came to a

night is past, the two others will pass likewise.’ Then he went to the
we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored up for ourselves--we
defended themselves with them, but all that is to no purpose when a man
own eyes.’ The peasant, however, made off next morning by daybreak with
he put on her clothes, dressed himself in her cap laid himself in bed
a girdle, stitched it, and embroidered on it in large letters: ‘Seven at

which it alighted; and when they approached the little house they saw
dinner?’ ‘O Frederick!’ answered she, ‘I was cooking you a steak; but
time. I am king, it is true; but I begin to be tired of that, and I

whistled the song: ‘Three tailors rode forth from the gate,’ as if
‘suppose we go together to the mountains, and eat as many as we can,
Then he was brought before the king, and the king said, ‘You shall never
  Let him after it go!
large jug and went into the cellar and tapped the ale cask. The beer ran
to the outer chamber. Just as he was going to lie down, the eldest of
the youth, ‘it is easily done; but if I learn how to shudder as fast as
Then he went his way very sorrowful; but the old fox came and said, ‘Why
looked at her for a long time, he said, ‘Ah, wife! what a fine thing it
kids said: ‘Dear mother, we will take good care of ourselves; you may go
great retinue. He went up to the youth, embraced him and said: ‘I am
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

made the fire, and the mouse put on the pot, and then these two waited
marry you, and love you as long as you live.’
and health.’ And all came to pass as she had said; Heinel bore all, and
horse had plenty to eat, and lived--till he died.
they lived for two days: and when they had eaten up all there was in the
children, who has brought you here? do come in, and stay with me. No
stove to hear if the doctor knew still more. But the doctor sat still
if I am really your son?’ ‘Yes,’ said his mother, ‘our Heinel had a mark

bundles on their shoulders, and after bidding their father goodbye, went
The second came soon afterwards, thinking only of how she might get a
CLEVER HANS
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
lies a dead horse; come with me and you may make an excellent meal of
and said: ‘You shall sit by me,’ until he did it. Whilst he was sitting
to please Mother Holle, for she thought of the gold she should get in
weather. Then he took leave of his father, and set himself in the boat,
going to carve the chickens, and sharpened it on the steps. Presently
and the sea was tossed up and down in boiling waves, and the ships were
know which ought to have the prize. Oh, that a time might soon come for
be a clever little fellow, who always knew well what he was about.
the sun so scorching, that the bride began to feel very thirsty again;
his soldiers.’ The daughter wanted to hear who the strange knight was,
up out of the dirt, she ran off as fast as she could to her master the
was well pleased with the counsel, and caused the peas to be strewn.
horror that he was turned into an ass. However, he still felt very
could find out how it happened, or where they had been.
I say I will be emperor.’ ‘Ah, wife!’ replied the fisherman, ‘the fish
turtle-doves; and after them came all the little birds under heaven,
that it was no warlike hero, but a little tailor who was standing before

wanted to help him, and drew his glove off. Then he saw the ring which
country that was laid waste by war and a dreadful famine, so that it was
whence do you come?’ ‘I know not.’ ‘Who is your father?’ ‘That I may
merchant; ‘what is it you take so deeply to heart?’ ‘If you would do me
here?--speak if you are an honest fellow, or I will throw you down the
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
suffer for it--we will punish you by a bloody war.’ Thus war was
dancing, for the soles of their shoes were full of holes. The same thing
seeking flowers and catching butterflies; but Snow-white sat at home
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
Not long after this there was a great bustle in the country; for the
wedding-feast was held, and they lived happily together a long time. The
the false bride, the king ordered a great feast to be got ready for all
one after the other,
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
she did, and when he had eaten as much as he could, he said, ‘Now I am
  And took my bones that they might lie
immediately spring up a high nut-tree on which the griffin will be able


was again forced to tell him that Cat-skin had cooked it. Cat-skin was
finest flowers were in full bloom, and on the other everything looked
was great astonishment over the wild man; the king, however, had him put
The young princess, you may be sure, was not long in saying ‘Yes’ to
thought: ‘He is tired and has gone to sleep.’ In the meantime came the
came into the palace, the flies were sleeping on the walls; the spit
on the gallows. What further commands has my lord?’ inquired the dwarf.
snow. This grieved him very much, for Lily was his dearest child; and as
Hansel and Gretel sat by the fire, and when noon came, each ate a little
and saying: ‘Wait, and I will give it to you,’ struck it mercilessly on
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
was sure it would betray them. ‘Here goes, however,’ said she: and down
wanted before the clock struck twelve.
the door of the little room in which Briar Rose was; and there she lay,
figure, and size.
a strange village, and employed himself in keeping sheep. Many a time
who it was, and I entreated him three times either to speak or to go
full of water, throw you into it and boil you; but we will get up
nothing could escape him that he had once set his mind upon.
Poor Hans was sadly frightened. ‘Good man,’ cried he, ‘pray get me out
the clock-case, was the only one he did not find. When the wolf had
her loved her.
but all in vain; he heard or saw nothing of Jorinda.
friend the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows,
he knew his beloved wife’s voice, and sprang up, and said, ‘You have
and screwed their feet fast. ‘I have looked at your fingers,’ said he,
waddling about all the morning, and what good food they had found; and
merry feast, Mr RUMPLESTILTSKIN!’
christening. ‘Feel,’ said he, ‘how heavy it is, and yet it is only eight
to the spring. Lina saw this and said, ‘Listen, old Sanna, why are you
three, the princess, the horse, and the bird.’ ‘Ah!’ said the young man,
her away again about her business.
means of saving ourselves!’ The man’s heart was heavy, and he thought:
the man in the sack saw him passing under the tree, he cried out, ‘Good
the moment they are at their juiciest.’ The master said: ‘I will run
minute whistling a merry tune, and another singing,
were so great, that she could not help setting out to see the bride. And
was so hard to find the pearls, and the job was so tiresome!--so he sat
morning: and that was really a very delightful life.
guest, however, thought no otherwise than that he was to give up one of

At last she overtook Frederick, who desired her to give him something to
to rest, otherwise he would not have the strength to bear you the whole
Whilst he lay there, the people came and inspected him on all sides, and
  Hither, hither, haste away!
was a road so narrow that the cart wheels always chafed the trees
and cried, ‘Carter! it shall cost thee thy life yet!’ With that he

had none at all for years.
a dog who, having met the sausage, had regarded him as his legitimate
leather enough for four pair more. He cut out the work again overnight


claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
sitting up on the roof, and wants to say goodbye to me.’ The wife said:

But when they came to the hazel-tree the little dove sat there still,
wished herself a thousand feet deep in the earth. She sprang to the
am a sorcerer: I will journey forth into the world, till I come again to
and when he heard that they were going to be put to this test he went to
Time passed on; and as the eldest son did not come back, and no tidings
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
the hill: Jorindel on a sudden looked behind him, and saw through the
which had brought her so low. And the servants gave her some of the rich
 ‘Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
into the bargain. What would I give to have such a prize!’ ‘Well,’ said
Meantime the queen went home to her glass, and shook with rage when she
forest and cry: “Iron Hans,” and then I will come and help you. My
START: FULL LICENSE
and listened when he heard so many birds singing. At last he came to the
Then the son said: ‘Now will I show her to you in her own form,’ and
where Elsie and the girl are.’ The boy went down, and there sat Clever
how a poor maiden had come and spoken to him in his chamber, and was
larger than a small rushlight. ‘Wife,’ said the fisherman, as he looked
the mother gave her a knife, and said, ‘Never mind, cut it off; when you
to do all the work of the house, and was quite the Cinderella of the
on each side of him, and looked savagely at him with their fiery
had passed; and they warned her once more not to open the door to
  Reel away, reel away,
so nimbly, and pulled the lace so tight, that Snowdrop’s breath was
sitting on a very lofty throne made of solid gold, with a great crown on
There was once upon a time a woman who was a real witch and had two
carrying the prince away with her.

going to try my luck in the world, and should like to begin by learning
best of things and to remain with one another.
thee,’ said the queen; and she went home to her glass, and at last it
‘Open the door, grandmother, I am Little Red-Cap, and am bringing you
homewards,’ said she. Then he bought for the first two the fine clothes
and spin, and the girl pricked her finger and thrust her hand into a
chamber where the fairy sat, with the seven hundred birds singing in
year, be wounded by a spindle, and fall down dead.’ Then the twelfth of
quite dead, and never moved any more.
Then the chamberlains came and brought her the most beautiful robes; and
everyone, he came out again safe and unharmed, and said to the lord of
anything go in.’ By daybreak the boy was already sitting by the well and
  Sadly, sadly, would she rue it.’
hundred years.
she slipped away from him, unawares, and ran off towards home; and as



ground, but he went to it and took the lid off, and a dead man lay
one. ‘If I have only a piece of bread (and I certainly shall always be

came, and when he saw him lying there on the ground, he thought the evil

When the wolf was gone, came a dog, a stag, a hare, a bear, a lion, and
them. When he drew it away and counted, there lay before him no fewer
ante-chamber.

Then her kind friend the bird brought a dress still finer than the
leisure.’
man who had been with the miller’s wife. He said to him: ‘I set you free
comforted himself as well as he could for the loss of his seven sons
After that the peasants went home, and as they were entering the
outside. The woman said: ‘Oh, heavens! It is my husband!’ she quickly
that he really meant to have taken away his life; so he called his court
brother works, but you do not even earn your salt.’ ‘Well, father,’ he
gave me something.’ ‘What did Gretel give you?’ ‘She gave me a goat.’

the peasant: ‘but he only says four things, and the fifth he keeps to
the stars.’ The plan pleased him much, and he soon became such a skilful
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
every time she made the bed she shook it with all her might, so that the
her. When Dummling heard this, he went with his goose and all her train
watered with her tears; and there it grew and became a fine tree. Three
think he was a ghost. The boy cried a second time: ‘What do you want


a decree that whosoever should be able to make her laugh should marry
did not stop, she had to dance till she lay dead on the ground.
which came the merry music of horns and trumpets. There they all landed,
money upon the rascals and buy their liberty. Then he did not stay to
seeing it, and ordered that the dance should be kept up a long time.
quiet it, do what she would. She grew impatient, and seeing the ravens
and said if she would keep all things in order, and cook and wash and
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
then one of the men left off,
son again. And as they were sitting at the marriage-feast, the music

that, they too wished to enjoy this great profit, and ran home, killed
something with it; it would at any rate make sausages.’ ‘Well,’ said
to Falada, and how Falada answered. Then he went into the field, and
When the old witch got up next morning, she called her daughter, and
live.’
and so went to the feast. Everyone made way for her, for nobody knew
When they arrived at Mr Korbes’s house, he was not at home; so the mice
beautiful in her rich clothes; and they never once thought of Ashputtel,
beard from the line, but all in vain, beard and line were entangled fast

manner of excuses and said he must first produce a man who could drink

did not you listen to me? If you had, you would have carried away
prince, ‘have broken his cruel charm, and now I have nothing to wish for
power is great, greater than you think, and I have gold and silver in
saw it glitter in the sun, he ran up, and would have pulled some of the
angry, and wanted to punish his wicked sons; but they made their escape,
friendly aid, and took the wand and the bread, and went travelling on
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
her plate, and sleep upon her bed for three nights. ‘You,’ said the
came, he should see the bearer, and would not take it in.
no injury whatever, for in his greediness the monster had swallowed them
not go into it, and the shoe was altogether much too small for her. Then
am!’ cried he. ‘Not wretch enough yet!’ answered the sparrow as she flew
last for three days, and you shall throw a golden apple. Perhaps the
hobblety jib back again!” They asked, too: “Under what hedge have you
hare would eat a cabbage-leaf out of their hands, the roe grazed by
cottage already!’ So the man went home, and saw his wife standing at the
kingdom was once more in peace and plenty. In the same manner he
in through the window and when the kids saw that they were white, they
his pipe and lighted it at the blue light, and as soon as a few wreaths
into the forest. When the king came home, he observed the empty cage,

but at last he awoke, pushed his comrade, and said: ‘Why are you

laid it away in his chest. From that time forth, strange things happened
brought with her fall into the last glass.
her, and crash! down went the lid, and off went the little boy’s head.
have found our dear child again’; and he told his wife not to use the
himself, and got upon his legs again, sadly vexed, and said to the
his kingdom.

taste bitter,’ said he, ‘but I will just finish the jacket before I

tomorrow morning when father was out hunting, she would set the kettle

treachery before the mayor. The innocent little peasant was unanimously
away very busily. ‘Why, how now, good mother,’ said the princess; ‘what
well,’ said she, ‘when one goes another may as well follow.’ Then she
country other than the United States.
from the closet, set me free from the barrel.’ At this same moment up
the bride gave him the silken cord, and he took the silken cord to
have shot you.’ Then he took the prince’s coat, and gave him the shabby
accused the queen of having allowed her child to be taken from her by
liked to have one of its golden feathers.
feast and make merry, and show the child to all the land. So he asked
than all the pretty girls that ever were seen before, and a shepherd
master’s house.
dwarfs. In the winter, when the earth is frozen hard, they are obliged
not understand why she was to keep away. ‘The others are there,’ she

There lay her grandmother with her cap pulled far over her face, and
each guest in turn was asked to tell a tale; the bride sat still and did
home till night. The mouse at once asked what name had been given to
another dress from the one she wore before, and took with her a poisoned

her better.’ When he got into the room, the king’s daughter said: ‘Take
so fulfilled, he did not know how what was done could be undone, and
to be judged, and was sentenced to die. But it was agreed, that, if he
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
you to turn your skill to some account!’
will live cheerful and happy in this beautiful castle for the rest of
came to a mill and knocked at the window. ‘What’s the matter?’ said the
what I had better do,’ said the soldier; ‘but I think I should like very
the whole plot. ‘I’ll put a screw into that business,’ said the little
But the servant, who was well disposed to the huntsmen, went to them,
They were as good and happy, as busy and cheerful as ever two children
have been rid of him again. But he did not venture to give him his
husband. Then he threw his cloak around him, and passed through the
smoke had circled about the cavern, suddenly a little black dwarf stood
    Straw into gold!’
the seven hundred cages. When she saw Jorindel she was very angry, and
that she may not be idle.’ The old king could not for some time think
have plenty to eat.’
asked was done, and soon he was riding on his three-legged horse. When
 Underneath the juniper-tree
And Curdken went on telling the king what had happened upon the meadow

Our honest friend journeyed on his way too; and if he was merry before,
and broke all her goods into a thousand pieces. Then she began to cry,
were of clear sugar. ‘We will set to work on that,’ said Hansel, ‘and
the guest came, and knocked politely and courteously at the house-door.
  Hearken to me!
  A visit to pay
Then the man went shivering with fear; and as he was going down to

  And took my bones that they might lie
carried the wearer wherever he wished. Heinel said they must first let
was dry, and wanted to milk his cow, but found the cow was dry too. Then

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Gretel.’ ‘Behave well, Hans.’ ‘Oh, I’ll behave well. Goodbye, mother.’

have him home again: so, before his wedding with the princess, he went
time to hold our marriage feast.’
wants to say goodbye to me,’ answered Hansel. ‘Fool!’ said the woman,
‘I feel very unhappy about it,’ said the husband, ‘in case it should not
Now it came to pass that his father said to him one day: ‘Hearken to me,
as he knew what he had to do, he did it thoroughly, and brought a chest
the butcher, ‘I don’t like to say no, when one is asked to do a kind,
walked for a short time, the forest seemed to be more and more familiar
saying, ‘Alas, my dearest child! I have bought this flower at a high
large as the highest and biggest tower in the world, and the least no
certainly did ask you to supper, but his intention is to cut off your
the old grandfather at last had to sit in the corner behind the stove,

he had finished his supper, they all went up together to his room and
court; but every morning he left his bride, and went away by himself,
Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
unluckily the wind had tangled up his beard with the fishing-line; a
the soldier was tried, and though he had done nothing wicked, the judge
At last she came to Mother Holle’s house, and as she had heard all about
I should be sorry if it were.’ The woman ran away and found her husband,
the great warrior want here in the midst of peace? He must be a mighty
Then the old woman said, ‘Now is the time for getting the bird’s heart.’
give the child?’ ‘Top off!’ said the cat quite coolly. ‘Top off!’ cried
sold. ‘Not for gold and silver.’ said she, ‘but for flesh and blood.’
and for eating, the little turnips are better than this; the best thing

  Prince! prince! look again for thy bride,
miser began to dance and spring about, capering higher and higher in
  My wife Ilsabill

All went right: then the fox said, ‘When you come to the castle where
back willingly, they were to cut him down and stab him.
tomorrow would be his last day; so in the evening he went to his good


all asleep, we will flee together. I have long been waiting for an
people heard the jingling of the bells they would not open it, and she
the sparrow said to the dog, ‘Stand there a little while till I peck you
let them do what they will, only take the blue light with you.’ Next day
her the poisoned one. And it looked so pretty, that she took it up and
pierced full of holes. He was led forth, and a priest was brought who

was also held fast to it.
against his going, and said, ‘I know well that misfortunes will come
‘Oh, indeed?’ answered the little tailor, and unbuttoned his coat, and
out: ‘Leave me alive, children,
And now the old king gathered together his court, and asked all his
SWEETHEART ROLAND
bruised and wounded those poor trees; they will never get well.’ So she
the bed.
they noticed a large bird hovering in the air, flying slowly round and


forth in Section 3 below.
When the time came for the war to begin, the willow-wren sent out spies

the coach rode the prince’s servant, faithful Heinrich, who had bewailed
long time, and at last found good counsel. He sent to the little tailor

partnership and set up house together. For a long time all went well;
By the side of a wood, in a country a long way off, ran a fine stream
they were fair in face but foul at heart, and it was now a sorry time
twenty of the miller’s men hewing a stone, and as they went ‘Hick hack,
eating or drinking anything, do you want to kill yourself?’
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
not, and said: ‘Is it I, or is it not I?’ But she knew not what answer
to gather wisdom till somebody should come and let him down.
her time by the way; and when she overtook her husband she cried
gold. ‘I am a king’s son,’ he said, ‘and I was bewitched by that wicked
were saying, he grew very thoughtful and sad. At last he arrived in
if he would but watch in it for three nights. The king had promised that
den. They found the ashes scattered by the wind, but the peas and
abundance.’
blue light away from him. ‘No,’ said he, perceiving her evil intention,
him.’ They came therefore to a decision, betook themselves in a body to
you, you would be lost.’
It was now three mornings since they had left their father’s house. They
his little cap on his head. But the king’s daughter went up to him and
himself angrily and sulkily in the chimney corner. But the sparrow sat
him. ‘How can you dare,’ said she with angry look, ‘descend into my
SNOW-WHITE AND ROSE-RED
o’clock the raven came driving along, drawn by her four white horses;
bread?’ The fourth, ‘Who has been meddling with my spoon?’ The fifth,
‘That would indeed be a fine thing for a man like me!’ thought the
saddle. But when the son looked at the horse, he thought it a great pity
the lid. Then came the six men and carried him away again. ‘I cannot
able to climb like me, you would not have lost your life.’
  By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade.’
The ass, being the tallest of the company, marched up to the window and
together. There was nothing to do but to bring out the scissors and cut

And when the dove had done its song, it came flying, and perched upon
that she fell upon Chanticleer most lustily. But Chanticleer was no
is to be king! Now we shall never have anything more to wish for as long


and mistress. Then the shepherd patted him on the head, and said, ‘Old
fastened the braids of hair, which she had cut off, to the hook of the

into the cellar and fetch some beer.’ Then Clever Elsie took the pitcher


found her sitting in front of the barrel, screaming loudly. ‘Elsie why

 ‘My mother killed her little son;

green. And he stood at the water’s edge, and said:
saw from afar that the three servants were coming, and the cook waddling
here in the bed, I am sleeping,’ cried the third drop of blood. She went
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
swimming in the middle of it. The witch placed herself on the shore,
the king, who was now, whether he liked it or not, obliged to keep his
she saw she had lost the gift of the good stars. What was to be done?
kingdom to come and celebrate the wedding of his son and the princess.
pecked at the bung of one of the casks till she loosened it; and then
more pipe on my way.’ ‘You may smoke three,’ answered the king, ‘but do
There was once upon a time a soldier who for many years had served the
little Marleen by the hand; then they all three rejoiced, and went
But Snowdrop grew more and more beautiful; and when she was seven years

false judge there, and his constable, and spare not the king who has
out, but it was already quite gilded. Iron Hans came, and already knew

carefully as you please.’ ‘Alas! alas!’ said he, ‘what a clever wife I
bring her some of the rampion yourself, let it cost what it will.’
So he hired some villains to murder him; and having shown them where to
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
little thing turns round!’ said the princess, and took the spindle
On the third day, the boy sat by the well, and did not stir his finger,
the old goat came home again from the forest. Ah! what a sight she saw
must be kept; I will go to the lion, and soothe him: perhaps he will let
  Will have her own will,

cried: ‘Ah, poor Crabb.’ When the lord heard that, he cried: ‘There! he
most beautiful maiden the sun shone on. Likewise in the castle lay great
pig for the cow.’ ‘Heaven reward you for your kindness and self-denial!’
the cart shall be in the wood by the time you want it.’ Then the woodman
the water. He raised himself up quickly, but the whole of the hair of
whatever meets you first on your going home, and I will give you as much
There was once a man who had a daughter who was called Clever Elsie. And

his ball back, cast all thought to the winds, and brought the key. The
but empty and dreary within, for it was enchanted. ‘Here,’ said he to
from hunger,’ said the cat; ‘and you, little mouse, cannot venture
trees budded in the woods, and soon the green branches grew thickly

did not know one word of it, but the two doves sat continually on his

 ‘Thou, queen, art fair, and beauteous to see,
made herself into Cat-skin again, and went into the kitchen to cook the
After they had travelled along a little way, they met a needle and a pin
the bear; ‘it is a wretched palace, and you are not King’s children, you
But little Marleen sat and wept and wept.
The youngest brother likewise met a man who asked him what he wished to
by learning some craft or another, and see how you can get on.’ So the
beautiful flower for myself?’ ‘Oh, yes,’ he replied, ‘I will play to
the snake had given him power of understanding the language of animals.

will never marry again, unless you meet with a wife who is as beautiful
time: what was got ready in the evening was always done by daybreak, and
feather, and when she lifted up her eyes she could nowhere see the dove.
engraved, off her finger, and put it upon one of his. Finally, she laid
A certain father had two sons, the elder of who was smart and sensible,
  Sing neigh down derry!’
  Would you know what I am making?
the way he passed by a mill, and there sat a raven with broken wings,
sitting, as the star-gazer had said, on the rock; and the dragon was
So she ate of it, and like the others ran off into the court braying

Poor Sultan, who was lying close by them, heard all that the shepherd
Still, his eyes were sharp and sparkling, and he soon showed himself to
the wearer gave the words, ‘Heads off!’; a cloak that made the owner
they too would fetch some sheep for themselves, a flock apiece, but the
but the true princess was told to stay in the court below.
gave her an old grey frock to put on, and laughed at her, and turned her
catches it, may make himself a big fur cap out of it.



what has happened on account of your not listening to my counsel. I will
mother said, ‘No, no, she is much too dirty; she will not dare to show
A shepherd’s dog had a master who took no care of him, but often let him

there was a courtyard behind, full of ducks and chickens. ‘Ah!’ said the
the door. Then he waited till her father came home, and told him that
the air with such a humming, and whirring, and swarming that every one
of it. ‘Do that likewise,’ said the giant, ‘if you have strength.’ ‘Is
overtake the children. The children, however, were sitting outside the
in them, and thought they were in heaven.


things which were lying beside him; he read the letter, and knew from it
evening when she was tired, she had no bed to lie down on, but was made


threw them out into the water. But when he had made away with these two,
wife wants to be pope.’ ‘Go home,’ said the fish; ‘she is pope already.’
chimney and fell before him. ‘Hullo!’ cried he, ‘another half belongs

needle, Hans?’ ‘Stuck in the hay-cart.’ ‘That was ill done, Hans. You
again in ever-increasing companies. The little tailor at last lost all
who had now no more excuses left to make. They cut the Apple of Life in
kingdom in peace and happiness all their lives; and the good fairy came
reached the highest point of it, there sat a powerful giant looking
some princess should take him out of the spring, and let him eat from
fell upon her knees before him, and said, ‘O dearest huntsman! forgive
grim and mysterious, that it did not please her at all. She stepped
So he set out once more on his journey, sighing, and in great despair,
will not do it, I will devour you.’ Then the miller was afraid, and made

himself with pain, and in his despair he leapt down from the tower. He
took it home, therefore, and the two children grew up together. And the

the tree with all its strength, and stuck its horn so fast in the trunk
Once in summer-time the bear and the wolf were walking in the forest,
and cried out, as well as he could:
down in the hollow of a tree and soon fell asleep: and there she slept
and how her tears did flow down her cheeks! ‘Dear God, do help us,’ she

go in peace, and brought home his royal coat.’ At this the king was
their money without thinking of taking away the goods. They lived on
1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
golden hair streamed forth, and let the boy excuse himself as he might,
servant must go first.’ When she came to the merchant in the town, he
 ‘Mistress Fox, are you inside?’
fell asleep. The sexton’s wife waited a long time for her husband, but
and said, ‘I will take for my wife the lady that this golden slipper
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
not thought of looking to that.

And the lock answered her, and said:
something home with me,’ and filled her pinafore full. ‘But now we must
they, ‘you are not our mother. She has a soft, pleasant voice, but
the ravens took their right form again; and all hugged and kissed each
servant, who was allowed to go everywhere. The king ordered the man to
go--come, we will try.’ Then he led him by dark passages to a smith’s


a sorrowful leave of the princess; and she put the lock of hair into
qualities which old Mr Fox had possessed, was always lacking, and the
by the seaside. The fisherman used to go out all day long a-fishing; and
hanging down as if it were eating.
asked her what was the matter. ‘There is a nasty frog,’ said she, ‘at
Then he said to his beloved: ‘I must now go and leave you, I give you
father,’ said Hansel, ‘I am looking at my little white cat, which is
will find I may be of some use.’ Then the merchant told him how all his
our lives.’ ‘Perhaps we may,’ said the wife; ‘but let us sleep upon it,

forgive you.’ ‘Alas!’ said the huntsman; ‘the king has ordered me to
The same day a customer came in, and the shoes suited him so well that
always dusty and dirty, they called her Ashputtel.
more spun the heap into gold. The king came in the morning, and, finding
her top drawer; then she set the boy’s head again on his shoulders, and
‘We will not leave each other,’ Rose-red answered: ‘Never so long as we
us?’ ‘Why, I can get between the iron window-bars of the parson’s house,
talers. When the money was being counted out to him, it so happened that
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
her right shoulder, and so went home with her.
perish so miserably, and, as he had a kind heart, he got off his
before we make up our minds to that.’ So they went to bed.
heart: get up behind, and be sure you do not fall off.’
alone; and Jorindel said, ‘We must take care that we don’t go too near
however much it hurt him. But the time was long to him, and he looked at
changed into a dove, and be forced to wander about the world for seven
‘Here he is, master,’ said he, ‘I have got the better of him’: and when
brought her back and said, ‘Fear me not! I am the fiddler who has lived
that it had let him have no rest, and he had been forced to see her.
salted the flesh, and the peasant went into the town and wanted to sell
she had touched her sister, she remained sticking fast to her. So they
I will pay you whatever you ask.’ ‘With all my heart,’ said the miller;
avail. Then she placed beside him a loaf, and some meat, and a flask
wide-spread world! I am just on my way thither, and want to try my luck.
man’s neck, so that it fitted him exactly.
maid’s ill behaviour, but got upon her horse again.
  My sister loved me best of all;
Gretel, until the moon rises, and then we shall see the crumbs of bread
Meanwhile the miser crept out of the bush half-naked and in a piteous

right for the one is right for the other; I think if I were to take
other,’ and carried him to the bed, covered him over and lay down by
fishes whose lives he had saved. The one in the middle held a mussel in
upon his own little stool; but the morning star rose up and gave her a
where there were three tablets, containing an account of the means by
which to find fault, he betrothed his daughter to him. But the girl did
  Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!’
a stone to throw at them; so they said they should not like this way of
And the glass had always answered:
The little tailor demanded of the king the promised reward; he, however,
I’ll behave well. Goodbye, mother.’ ‘Goodbye, Hans.’ Hans comes to
‘Yes,’ and forgot the fox’s counsel, and sat down on the side of the
with wine in them; and seven knives and forks laid in order; and by
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
opened the door, and hastened as fast as they could from the murderers’
once, and took their lives. I luckily slipped through her fingers.’
young man sat himself down, and away they went over stock and stone till
they will do will be to throw you into the horse-pond. Can you swim?’
it sprang back again, and the tailor was tossed into the air with it.
army. Then said the gardener’s boy: ‘I am grown up, and will go to the

slipped away, and sprang so quickly through the crowd that he lost sight
when they did not see each other they were sad.
strewed the meal all about the cellar, and was quite pleased with her
light a fire under the tree and kill the bees, so as to get their honey.

steel; and the joint will be so fine that no seam will be seen.’
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
as she had led her sister, to the broad gateway; but as she was passing
opened the door for me,’ answered the man. ‘No,’ said the boy, ‘I will

home. ‘That’s a good joke!’ said Chanticleer; ‘no, that will never do;
dresses--of the sun, the moon, and the stars--up in a nutshell, and
nothing but a nail in the wall.’ Then down they all went, and at the

Hans. What do you bring that is good?’ ‘I bring nothing, I want to have
should meet him first on his return.
when they will come? Meanwhile, I will run into the cellar, and take a

when she had grown up her father said: ‘We will get her married.’ ‘Yes,’
Then Lina said: ‘Fundevogel, never leave me, and I will never leave
he opened the door and took hold of it and put it into the golden cage.
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
was standing still; the butler had the jug of ale at his lips, going
down whole. What rejoicing there was! They embraced their dear mother,

the shore a dreadful storm arose, so that the trees and the very rocks
Tom only crawled farther and farther in; and at last it became quite
more said: ‘If you do not do it, it shall cost you your own life.’ When
two pieces, and fell into the stream. The coal slipped after her, hissed

old Mr Fox. When the widow heard that, she said joyfully to the cat:

I was eating in haste I swallowed a ring which lay under the queen’s
woman was brought to bed, the enchantress appeared at once, gave the
they came to terms. Heinel agreed that his father must give him up, and
dread came over her which she could not explain, and that she might
fit to have boots and shoes thrown at her head.


How could it be otherwise with such a travelling companion as he had at
jug at his lips: and thus everything stood still, and slept soundly.
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
they began to run, rushed into the parlour, and threw themselves round

could help himself. At length he went to the palace, and asked if they
Partlet,’ said the other. ‘May I go with you?’ said the fox. ‘Yes; but
little grey frock.
‘Oh dear me, I should like to buy very much, but I have no money: if
in which neither sun nor moon could be seen and had his wife put into

father, and went forth with a bold heart into the wood. But the lion was

like the sun; another silvery, like the moon; and a third sparkling,
night: ‘Boy, make me the doublet, and patch the pantaloons, or else I
arrange for the wedding.’ ‘Then in the meantime I will stay here and
‘now if you could find money in your pocket whenever you put your hand
that the rays fell into the bedroom of the king’s daughter, and up she


would not own that she knew anything about the ring; so the king sent
no sooner was the princess released from the spell, than she seized
you must keep it; so go and let him in.’ She did so, and the frog hopped
nor think of him without an inward shudder. One day he said to her, ‘You
head for it.’ ‘And the silver?’ ‘Oh! I worked hard for that seven long
drank.
mountains, saying, as before, ‘Prince, prince, whither so fast?’ ‘Mind
had beautiful feet, and had no doubt that they could wear the golden
And the glass answered:
and put it into the dish in which the soup was. When the dance was over,
‘Well, wife,’ replied he, ‘it is a grand thing to be pope; and now
a fox met him: ‘What’s the matter, my friend?’ said he, ‘why do you hang

should like a drop of sweet red christening wine myself.’ All this,
time she had attended to his house-keeping. She told him her story,
well is as bright and clear as crystal, you shall sit beside it, and
lentils had sprouted, and grown sufficiently above the ground, to guide
Snow-white was married to him, and Rose-red to his brother, and they
beds. Their piece of bread was given to them, but it was still smaller
take good care of her. Then they went out all day long to their work,
have my daughter unless in eight days you dig away the hill that stops
cat, ‘one word more, and I will eat you too.’ ‘All-gone’ was already on
they had on their bodies get burnt.’ Then the man saw that he would not
had rubbed his feet over, he ran to the miller and said: ‘Strew some
one another, and did not know what to do, for none dared go home. In the
on foot, but again the laugh rang in his ears, and he found himself
did you get the pig?’ ‘I gave a cow for it.’ ‘And the cow?’ ‘I gave a
found a hidden treasure; let us go and dig it up, and share it between
touched his heart, that every day he went out into the forest and
  Sadly, sadly, would she rue it.’

lace them up with one of my nice new laces.’ Snowdrop did not dream of
wicked look. ‘Mother,’ said the boy, ‘how dreadful you look! Yes, give
lad, whose name was Jorindel, was very fond of her, and they were soon

the Water of Life; and as he was going on his way homewards, he passed
followed thee seven years. I have been to the sun, the moon, and the
than Crumb-stealer, as your godchildren are called.’
satisfied his appetite he took himself off, laid himself down under a
the wall stood seven little beds. As she was very hungry, she picked
THE OLD MAN AND HIS GRANDSON
shovels.’ Then the small peasant was brought before the mayor, and

no one came to the poor children. They did not awake until it was dark
as you please.’ The merchant thought this was no great thing to ask;
fall upon him his enchantment would become still worse, for he should be


other, ‘mine is a golden trade; a good grinder never puts his hand
more searched the whole palace through, till at last he found a white
happen to us all in this world! The cook got up early, before daybreak,

involuntarily put it in the water. He drew it quickly out again, but saw
did they would be hanged. They led him to the spot where the money was

The mother of Hans said: ‘Whither away, Hans?’ Hans answered: ‘To
It happened that the cat met the fox in a forest, and as she thought to
She went on a little farther, till she came to a tree full of apples.
nothing,’ he answered, and held his finger behind his back, that the
and you shall give me the silver; which will save you a great deal of
as he felt tired, that he would rest himself for a while, and gaze on
‘Quick, Rose-red, open the door, it must be a traveller who is seeking

the wing, but her finger and hand remained sticking fast to it.
Whilst she was speaking, a frog put its head out of the water, and said,
that she soon began to cry out for mercy; which was only granted her
time when it fell down, he cried: ‘Oh, what a clever Elsie!’ and sat
  All the world is my home;
the third stroke of the wand, and when the lions were quieted he went on
still be guiltless, and said to his court, ‘O that my son were still
window, and felt such a longing for it that she would have died if she
 ‘Cock-a-doodle-doo!
cinder-cake, it was a fine sweet cake, and the sour beer had become good
1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

Rose-red. Rose-red liked better to run about in the meadows and fields

you had any use for yellow buttons, I might deal with you.’ ‘Yellow
to go, crying out, ‘Go on!’ and ‘Stop!’ as he wanted: and thus the horse
garden and steal my rampion like a thief? You shall suffer for it!’
fourteen days and still could not find a way out. Once more the night
state of life the young lord had been born, and next morning complained
wear anything else; so she was always called ‘Little Red-Cap.’
  And hath sent me to beg a boon of thee!’
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
child.’
miser began to beg and promise, and offered money for his liberty; but
second by four chestnut, and the last by four black horses; but if you

his sister to sit by him. ‘No,’ replied Gretel, ‘that will be too heavy
in Hanau, near Frankfurt, in the German state of Hesse. Throughout

faster than she, and stuck close to the steak. ‘It’s all gone, and “what
wolf; ‘you’ll awaken everybody in the house if you make such a clatter.’
ran out. When the carter saw this, he again cried out, ‘Miserable wretch

on the wave.
knees knocked together: but still he went down near to the shore, and

‘Yes, yes,’ said the others: ‘if he will sing again, he can have it.’
asked me to be godmother; he is white with brown spots, and I am to hold
They were once sitting thus when the little grandson of four years old
The bird flew away and alighted on the house of a goldsmith and began to
croak again, and said: ‘In the second place, he says that there is some
his court. The bridegroom sat at the top, with the false princess on one
cried, ‘Fine wares to sell!’ But Snowdrop said, ‘I dare not let anyone

head, ‘The dog is not shut up--he may be running away with the steak;
before you at once.’ Thereupon he vanished from his sight.
grief came to an end and joy began.
and own the power of knowledge.
cried he. ‘Not wretch enough yet!’ said the sparrow. And as the carter
her nutshell, and brought out of it the dress that shone like the sun,
and thus passed unknown into the town. When he came to his father’s
the straw was.’ The man said: ‘I have no objection, but be quick and get
So our poor wanderer went forth, and found all as the night-wind had
roaring and howling, and the other half fell down likewise. ‘Wait,’ said
great cask into my lap. And here is the finger with the ring.’ And
their pardon. And now at last the young wrens were satisfied, and sat
nicely. ‘What a lucky thing,’ said she, ‘that we kept that meal! we have
the huntsmen together, and bade them go out into the forest with him.
down on his bed, and in a little while began to snore very loud as if
came with their hoes from the fields; the parson called out to them
like a raspberry on his right arm.’ Then he showed them the mark, and
run, and away they went over stock and stone so quick that their hair
know yet,’ said he. ‘Then come with me, and be a star-gazer. It is a
time pick two of those dishes of peas out of the ashes, you shall go
the fox; but he missed it, and it set up its tail above its back and
they are twelve girls.’ The king said: ‘That cannot be true! How

went home very sorrowful, while the dwarf went his way, thinking that at
before sunrise these must be picked up, and not a single grain be
want with such a slender little fellow as I? you would not feel me
no rest, until the latter told him, that not far from thence stood a
‘You can sew anything with this, be it as soft as an egg or as hard as
the ground, they thought what had happened, and soon found the poisoned
care to invite all his friends and relations. As they sat at the feast,

and they cut the eyes and tongue out of a deer that they might carry
young man sat safe within, till at length it ran ashore upon an unknown
years.’ ‘You have thriven well in the world hitherto,’ said the grinder,
every day to the festival, always in different colours, and who caught

the door down soon.’ But he begged and prayed her not to do so, for he
saw several knights sitting in a trance; then he pulled off their rings
and then, according to an old custom in the country, it was announced
earning nothing. You must learn to weave baskets.’ Then he went out and
you are so happy I feel very uneasy; I am sure some mischance will
pieces and sprinkled salt upon it.’
called her up, and said, ‘Now, comb our hair, brush our shoes, and tie
weather grew so bad and there was a storm of rain and wind, he could

dead, and the sparrow flew quietly home to her nest.
And now only five,
 ‘Are you within, good Mistress Fox?
held the gold chain and the pincers in his hands, and so he stood gazing
nuts and vinegar bottle also--that would be too much of a load; so if
At noon Frederick came home. ‘Now, wife,’ cried he, ‘what have you for
behave well. Goodbye, mother.’ ‘Goodbye, Hans.’
to a great wood. ‘Pray,’ said she, ‘whose is this wood?’ ‘It belongs
angry, and said: ‘That is not allowed; he must appear before me and tell
said, ‘Run first, and bring me my garland that is hanging on a willow
night. Now the host had three daughters, who saw the goose and were
an old mouse-hole. ‘Good night, my masters!’ said he, ‘I’m off! mind and
fat certainly was still in its place, but it was empty. ‘Alas!’ said the
  My sister loved me best of all;
said:
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

would give him his only daughter to wife, and half of his kingdom as a
royal bride. And she gave her a waiting-maid to ride with her, and give
window; he was in good spirits, and sewed with all his might. Then came
like to see the dog in his true shape, and wished him back into the form
into favour, because, after all, he had told the truth.

walk gravely along as if you were going to school, while everything else
But the princess was very gentle and meek, so she said nothing to her
so the lion will have the victory, and both of them will appear to you
Once upon a time, a mouse, a bird, and a sausage, entered into
or it will be all over with you. Tonight, when the robbers are
behind for? Pay attention, and do not forget how to use your legs.’ ‘Ah,
However, the horseman got off, took the silver, helped Hans up, gave him
top and the valley’s depth--hast thou anywhere seen my white dove?’
overjoyed to see her, and longed to get to the top of the mountain, but
They lived together very happily, and the queen had a son. And thus
hobbled in, and said, ‘Good morrow to you, my good lass; what are you
he rose and came out to them.
king got to the bottom, he ordered Cat-skin to be called once more, and

his neck, he flew right away to his father’s house.
were all turned away, until at last one came who had nine tails, like
taken away from myself; be off!’ and he left the little man standing and
little brook, and drank; for she was frightened, and dared not bring out
Just then she looked out of the window and saw him coming, and it seemed
seized the tree with both arms as if he had been carrying it, and said
to do such a thing?’ ‘Why,’ answered she, ‘I did not know there was any
and went on.

it first.’ ‘I fear one unicorn still less than two giants. Seven at one
already knew everything, and said: ‘Take the handkerchief off.’ Then the

given me this beautiful gold chain, and looks so beautiful himself.’
‘Who is there?’
looked through his maps, but the castle was not to be found. Then he
you go; she does not like living any longer in the pigsty, and wants
the young birds in them together again, so neatly that the shot shall

carry: to be sure it is silver, but it is so heavy that I can’t hold up
white foam upon their heads. And the fisherman crept towards the sea,
showed the giant the girdle, ‘there may you read what kind of a man I
brother, and he, too, was at last obliged to take up his abode in the

people. This touched the old king’s heart, and he thought his son might

read on his girdle: ‘Seven at one stroke.’ ‘Ah!’ said they, ‘what does

  Bewailing her sorrowful doom,

ate and drank, his heart desired what he saw, and would willingly
you do not go out in the daytime.’ During the cat’s absence the mouse
heard no more; they had disappeared, and the country was freed from the

the king returned to his palace, his daughter went to meet him, and
the young man; ‘sitting cross-legged from morning to night, working
comes and asks for her hand.’ Not long after a suitor appeared, and as
near the merchant began to call to mind his bond, and became very sad

No mishap overtook them; if they had stayed too late in the forest, and
Then he stoked the fire, blew it, and set them all round it to warm
below stood the golden cage, and the three golden apples that had been

Have you any inclination to go with me?’ The giant looked contemptuously
chanced one day that some blood fell on to the spindle, and as the girl
dwarfs’ house; and he saw Snowdrop, and read what was written in golden
house of his silver and gold?’ ‘I’ll tell you!’ cried Tom. ‘What noise
not I shall be worse off than before; for here I see neither apples
said the wolf. ‘In such and such a house,’ said Tom, describing his own

and his knife by his side. When the king saw him he fell into a passion,
  Then who so blythe, so merry as I?’


divided between them the great treasure which the dwarf had gathered

the streets, and a man rode up on horseback, crying aloud: ‘The king’s
Iron Hans, and was by enchantment a wild man, but you have set me free;
therein. He felt his face, but it was cold as ice. ‘Wait,’ said he, ‘I
lost were lying close by it. Then thought he to himself, ‘It will be a
prize.
about his business.
so you must keep silence; what is done can’t be undone; we will make
and Hans told him all his luck, how he had so many good bargains, and
 ‘Back again! back again! look to the shoe!

never fastened until their black friend had arrived.
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
token of where he had been.
‘and let me sit next to you.’ As soon as she had done this, the frog
and disclosed the project. So when they were alone the king’s daughter

very high, the woman said: ‘Now, children, lay yourselves down by the
great many years, and we ought to give him a livelihood for the rest of
The wolf lifted the latch, the door sprang open, and without saying a
and wept and wept, and her tears fell into the pot, so that there was no
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
frightfully angry, and screamed: ‘No, that we are not! Our parents are
bark. ‘Look sharp!’ said the king to the huntsmen, ‘and see what sort
 ‘Shake, shake, hazel-tree,
to your own people, and as you have served me so well and faithfully, I
cleaned the house, and put it in order, but the greedy cat entirely
out, ‘See, father, here I am with the cart, all right and safe! now take
right--all that falls to them is so much gain--all their geese are
could not take it away: and when he had worked for seven days, and had
‘Oh! grandmother,’ she said, ‘what big ears you have!’
This advice pleased the lion, so he laid himself down quietly for the
spot. So the cow was killed, and cut up; and the stomach, in which Tom
rags go on burning. At this he grew angry, and said: ‘If you will not
bushes that they had, without knowing it, sat down close under the old
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
Sultan had nobody he could ask to be his second but the shepherd’s old
fast,’ replied the youth. ‘If I am to die, I shall have to have a say
look at it, and he thought to himself, ‘It is a pity to ride upon this


earth trembled. The willow-wren with his army also came flying through
He rode on with the princess, till at last he came to the village where

  Because old Mr Fox is dead.’
the garden to await the king’s daughter, but he felt even more overcome
suffer you to trouble them.’
‘Well,’ said Hans, ‘if she is not really smart, I won’t have her.’ When
bear to leave my children alone in the forest?--the wild animals would
road. But Tom ran about amongst the furrows, and at last slipped into
the other poor. The poor man thought he would try to better himself; so,
must take your hat off.’ He answered: ‘Ah, Lord, I cannot; I have a bad
the rest, went to see what was going on. Finding everything still, he
it,’ said the miser in the presence of all the people; ‘I acknowledge

prudently stayed behind on the shore, could not but laugh at the event,
you.’ Then the night-wind said, ‘I will give thee counsel. Go to the
her. By degrees, however, his sorrow grew less, and although at times he
heavy heart, and took the rose; and said he would give the lion whatever
loudly, and as if she would never stop. Thereupon Dummling asked to have
When he came to the forest the little old grey man met him likewise,
When she reached home, she bolted the back door, but the front door she
had a very heavy lid and a large iron lock.


The cat replied:
1. HOW THEY WENT TO THE MOUNTAINS TO EAT NUTS
heaven, chirping and fluttering in: and they flew down into the ashes.
uttered no sound and stood as if he were made of stone. Then the boy
night until daybreak. Then the maiden changed herself into a beautiful
piece of bread, and as they heard the strokes of the wood-axe they

carrying the tree were child’s play. The giant, after he had dragged the
berries and ate eagerly of them, and then she grew sad and ill. A little
like you: you are the wolf!’ Then the wolf ran to a baker and said: ‘I
When he found himself safe, he was overjoyed to think that he had got
daughter wants a husband; but whoever seeks her hand must perform a hard
and strength’; so he brought the bread out of the cupboard, cut himself
a ship for himself and his brothers; and they sailed together over the
as the mouse and the sausage might, it was of no use; the bird remained
and although Wilhelm’s work was hampered by poor health the brothers
bride, I will have no other!’ Everything he had forgotten, and which had
eat, the bird would not sing, and the princess wept.
in her bed.
class of people who find things before they are lost; they were tired;
you ask it for anything?’ said the wife, ‘we live very wretchedly here,
The king still would not give him the promised reward, and made a third
thought to himself: ‘Goodness, what a blockhead that brother of mine is!
So she went out.
Then the waiting-maid got upon Falada, and the real bride rode upon the
  Let down your hair to me.’
behind them, and none of them would venture anything further against
and scolded him, and asked how he could take such a boy as that into his
up to her and said, ‘Wife, are you emperor?’ ‘Yes,’ said she, ‘I am
plucked them, put them on the spit, and towards evening set them before
cellar is now quite dry, and looks so clean!’ ‘Kate, Kate,’ said he,
and told the miller to drive them back to him, and when they came, he
her stool, and overset the milk-pail. As soon as she could pick herself


his tail, and then you can draw him to your den, and eat him at your
and sowed turnips.
king’s daughter had been carried off by a mighty dragon, and the king
so well all that belonged to hunting, that he became very clever in the
he put in his pocket. In front of the door he observed a bird which

began to cry. Then they took the old grandfather to the table, and
head tomorrow, and make broth of me for the guests that are coming
there, he thought of his dearest mother, and wished that one of the
of the Water of Life.’ For he thought to himself, ‘My brother is surely
will be better off,’ said they, ‘with us than with you.’ ‘I won’t sell
father,’ said the son; ‘pray give him up his bond at once.’ ‘Fair and
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
shirt-sleeves, and stood looking up at the bird on the roof with his
not stand upright any longer; so again he lay down and fell fast asleep.
There was once upon a time a queen to whom God had given no children.
trouble.’ The farmer was a sad miser, and knew that his man was very
Early in the morning, Gretel had to go out and hang up the cauldron with

other.’ Now the apple was so made up that one side was good, though the
polish him.’ The father was glad to do it, for he thought: ‘It will
ring the bell. ‘You shall soon learn what shuddering is,’ thought he,

other.’
this, fell into such a passion that he ordered a high tower to be built,

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
of the sleeping wolf. When he had made two snips, he saw the little
the cock; and when the jug was full the liquor ran upon the floor till
of her were two rows of burning lights, of all sizes, the greatest as

wife’s daughters what he should bring them. ‘Fine clothes,’ said the
the way of her own child, and she was continually thinking how she could
sentenced to death, and was to be rolled into the water, in a barrel
all up, so that when she put the cup to her mouth it was empty. At this,
agree upon?’ No one knew that, so the fox said: ‘I have a fine long
have eaten her up. ‘Well,’ said the grandmother, ‘we will shut the door,
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
upstairs,’ said Mrs Fox, and ordered the servant to prepare the wedding
them and be pleased with them, and that is what no man would do.’
forest, where in the same place there sat a man who was tying up his
wishing, and I am here, he might very easily get me into trouble.’ So
for some old iron, that he might sell it and raise a little money; and
‘Has he nine as beautiful tails as the late Mr Fox?’ ‘Oh, no,’ answered
When they had reached the middle of the forest, the father said: ‘Now,

around her stood all the pomp and power of the Church. And on each side
 ‘My mother killed her little son;
as you would enjoy sticking that dainty tongue of yours out of the
for flesh and blood: let me again this evening speak with the bridegroom
that he would let her take leave of her father. At first he refused,
good God will help us.’
eat yourself full.’ He led him to the king’s palace where all the
his late companion some trick. At last he went to the judge, and


day with her. Witches have red eyes, and cannot see far, but they have
will no longer be your father.’ The youth remained a whole year with the
‘Bless me!’ said the old woman, ‘how badly your stays are laced! Let me
their clothes. So he said: ‘Take care, or I will hang you up again.’ The

‘Poor bear,’ said the mother, ‘lie down by the fire, only take care that
As he had a compassionate heart he pulled out his needle and thread,
bushy tail, which almost looks like a plume of red feathers. When I lift
moment later a big fish made a bite and the feeble creature had not
she said sorrowfully:
everyone called Dummling, should take away his daughter, and he made a
said the huntsman, ‘for I should kill the beautiful young lady also.’
led the horse out; it was lame of one foot, and limped hobblety jib,
own country, and the poodle had to run after him. He went to the tower
began to eat, and by the end of one day the whole mountain had vanished.
the gate the guards said he was not the true prince, and that he too
about the castle of Stromberg, and he told them he would look on his own
him for her husband, and she saw that he was young and handsome, she
did you take her?’ ‘Took her nothing, she gave me something.’ ‘What did
snow-white doves flew on his shoulders and remained sitting there. The
marched into the kitchen, and groped about till he found a match in

peace,’ said she to herself, and well filled and fat she did not return
there till the evening. Now, whether it was that they had eaten so many
soldier tapped at the pane of glass, and when this man came up, said to
something cried suddenly from one corner: ‘Au, miau! how cold we are!’
father; and he began to long to see him once again. But the queen was
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cheap!’ This rang pleasantly in the tailor’s ears; he stretched his
shoulders, and it was splendid to behold. He wanted to run out, but she
in the hope of making great gains, when the news came that both were
them.’ Next they came to a bees’-nest in a hollow tree, and there was
dwarf, and what she had said. But one day he came into her room, where
that, I can easily keep it in mind.’
stomach with them while he is still asleep.’ Then the seven kids dragged
fail to keep awake and I find you sleeping, I shall not be set free.’
search of the Water of Life, because my father is ill, and like to die:
It happened that, on the very day she was fifteen years old, the king
world!’ and there he sat in great grief and fear, not knowing what to
you do not suffer her to go and take leave of her father and mother.’
‘Do just tell her, miss, that a young fox is here, who would like to woo
cavern and spend the night with us.’ The little tailor was willing, and
more said: ‘What shall I do? Shall I cut first, or shall I sleep first?
yourself on the straw there,’ and gave him a slice of bread and cheese.
A king’s son soon came. He was well entertained, and in the evening was
proposed that he should stay one night more. ‘Tomorrow, you shall only
house in which a gang of robbers lived.
strength to pull it out; the fish kept the upper hand and pulled the

There was, however, a servant of the king’s who favoured the huntsmen,
was held with great magnificence and small joy, and out of a tailor a
bottom of the room to the top, till he came up close to the table where

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
idle, gathered two pocketsful of stones, and with these climbed up the
the garden, the day was so warm he took his little cap off that the air
beautiful, but so proud, and haughty, and conceited, that none of the
Then Chanticleer was very sorry, and cried bitterly; and all the beasts
A farmer had a horse that had been an excellent faithful servant to

princess had carried the prince; and there was a feast got ready, and
little to bite and to break, and once when great dearth fell on the
she to herself, ‘was I not once set free? Why then does this enchantment
said to her maidens: ‘Show some strength, and step firmly on the peas.’
name?’ ‘Is it JOHN?’ asked she. ‘No, madam!’ ‘Is it TOM?’ ‘No, madam!’

and drove the spit merrily round. But as the roast meat smelt so good,
must go home and see my poor mother once more: so pray pay me my wages
cannot be read by your equipment.
As they came to the castle, all was as the fox had said, and at twelve
of her carriage and went to him; she called him and shook him, but it
her; and the seventh dwarf slept an hour with each of the other dwarfs
consequence.’ The woman who had hoped to find a good sale, gave him
and tears were of no avail; the parson was sent for, and she was married
  
wished for one, and she immediately stood before him, and was more

‘Bird,’ said the shoemaker, ‘sing me that song again.’
countryman; but the judge told him that was not likely, and cut the
and said he had had but one son, his poor Heinel, who he knew was long
and had not thought that anyone would come there so late. The evening
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
the king came up to her, and held out his hand and danced with her; and
to rise early in the morning to his work. His conscience was clear and
deal better than this smart beast that played me this trick, and has
ale to run, and then spoil all the meal?’ ‘Why, Frederick,’ said she, ‘I
stirring in the inn, Chanticleer awakened his wife, and, fetching the
  Linger not in this murderers’ lair.’
said, ‘I cannot have that strange girl to help me to keep the geese any
  The cat runs quickly up the stair,
people, seeing such a beautiful woman, went to buy her wares, and paid
and looked up and saw a flock of birds pulling a cloak with their bills
lion who lived in a cave close by, and said to him, ‘A little way off
‘Here is the chain, take it,’ said the goldsmith. ‘Only sing me that
must then return to look after the child who is in our care.’
looked so fresh and green that she longed for it, she quite pined away,
went again into the garden, and said:
a forest, and had neither stairs nor door, but quite at the top was a
passed on.

a good girl, and I will look down from heaven and watch over you.’ Soon
﻿THE GOLDEN BIRD
rested himself he set off again, driving his cow towards his mother’s
  Mortal lips have this way been.’

exception, it has not a single white hair on its whole body; this only
I discern the signs and motions of the heavens and the stars; the laws
the tree!’
any good I would willingly tell you,’ said the merchant. ‘Who knows but

evening she came to a cottage among the hills, and went in to rest, for

the night, the old woman came creeping in, she held an axe in her right
When the dance was at an end she curtsied; and when the king looked

The coast once clear, our travellers soon sat down and dispatched what
to get into it, and he either could not, or dared not, jump over it. At
slept so soundly, that her voice only passed over him, and seemed like
was morning before they reached the mill. Then the girl told her father
afraid of, dear child? Stay with me; if you will do the work of my house
without further opportunities to fix the problem.
for I will give you good counsel; I know what your business is, and
Then he flew away, and settled on the roof of a shoemaker’s house and
But as soon as the first rays of the sun shone into the garden he saw
does indeed live here, but he will kill you without mercy and afterwards
TIMOTHY, ICHABOD, BENJAMIN, JEREMIAH, and all the names she could
‘Good evening, mother.’ ‘Good evening, Hans. Where have you been?’ ‘With
peas, and saying: ‘It must have rained peas, last night.’ ‘We must think
of farthings.’ ‘Have you not shuddered then?’ ‘What?’ said he, ‘I have
there.
watch tonight, that we may see who it is that comes and does my work for
At last it popped into Catherine’s head that it was the door itself that
wanted to pounce upon them and carry off the princess, the huntsman took
the dress pleased the bride so much that she asked whether it was to be

  Are all comb’d and curl’d!
finished their meal, they could sleep their fill till the following

sound comes from.’ At last the thieves found him out, and lifted him

but shudder!’ The host who heard this, laughed and said: ‘If that is
shudder!’ for he was afraid. Or when stories were told by the fire at
  She laid her kerchief over me,
and give her a kiss, and she will let you lead her away; but take care
can go no farther.’ ‘Countryman,’ said the witch, ‘who are you? and what
 ‘What rumbles and tumbles
and mother again, but I will keep you with me, for you have set me free,
  And, wheels, run steady!
on the huntsmen’s clothes, and she herself put on the twelfth suit.
floor, and behind them upon a perch sat a white dove with its head

air in the yard, heard them coming, and jumping into the brook which ran
you can, and I will let it drop; then you may carry it back, and they
‘Why, where have you been?’ said his father. ‘I have been in a
his wife was not faithful to him, and wished to put her to the test. He

but he held it fast with both hands. She again gave him a handful of
nice trick!’ said her master, and lamented the fine chickens. ‘If he had
brought again before the king, but she still told him that she was only
have much the best of the bargain. First there will be a capital roast;
their swords flashed in the sun. The youth made over his three-legged
two rose-trees, and one was called Snow-white, and the other Rose-red.
say; and if you tell tales, you shall lose your life into the bargain:
quarters there: but the landlord at first was unwilling, and said his
the castle together, and found a great many servants there, and the

were nowhere to be found. She called them one after another by name, but
sparkled for joy, and he said to himself, ‘Surely I must have been born
She sat down in one corner of the room, and began to bewail her hard
leave. Go to the fish at once!’
the ball? And when she kept on begging, she said at last, to get rid of
took good care of their father; and somebody took better care of the
it was faring with the queen in the tower, and if she were alive still,

come to! This is a murderers’ den. You think yourself a promised bride,
made of, but went with his horse straight over it; and as he came to the

of game lies there.’ And the huntsmen went up to the tree, and when they
way; but at last they plucked up their hearts, and said, ‘The little
because of the many wounds which he had received. The king said to him:
was very unruly, and plagued me sadly on the road’; but the truth was,
shudder, but you will not earn your bread by that.’


decided on, the young count entered into the church, and suddenly two
he went in he saw his wife sitting on a throne of gold and diamonds,
was still half full. ‘This shall be my last pleasure,’ thought he,
all the wealth of the kingdom: but the king said, ‘One feather is of no

want a kitchen-maid; and they say they will take you, and there you will
fell asleep and began to snore very loud. The huntsman was just passing
from the fire, but it will be a sin and a shame if they are not eaten
as before. Then she put on her dress which sparkled like the stars, and
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
THE THREE LANGUAGES
you got that gold, or I shall play on for your amusement only,’ ‘I stole
All went right, and the groom lay snoring with his hand upon the golden

down, and the space left for him became smaller and smaller. At last he
looked for her master, and did not see him. It suddenly occurred to

all was ready a signal was given, and they began their music. The ass
she always did, in her dirty frock by the ashes, and her dim little
 ‘Back again! back again! look to the shoe!
will have a bow that will bring down everything I shoot at; secondly,
the town to the greatest advantage. The mayor, however, said: ‘But my
Mrs Fox asked: ‘Has the gentleman red stockings on, and has he a pointed
 ‘Falada, Falada, there thou hangest!’


called out to them, ‘God be with you.’ They stopped when they heard the
died too; and so all were dead.
brought the door, you shall carry it about with you for your pains.’
friend, and soon raised the boat up again, and it went safely on. The
Gretel, however, ran like lightning to Hansel, opened his little stable,
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
When therefore the son had been proclaimed king, and the time of
‘You are my beloved bride, and we will never more be parted from each
  My wife Ilsabill
and threw it into the goblet, so that it rang as it touched the bottom.
such a kind honest heart, I will grant you three wishes--one for every
roots and berries, and did naught but lament and weep over the loss of
Little Marleen now felt as lighthearted and happy as if her brother were
Just as they were about to sit down and eat, there was a knocking
slut, you have no clothes, and cannot dance; you shall not go.’ And when
answered the child, ‘for father and mother to eat out of when I am big.’
When old Mr Fox was dead, the wolf came as a suitor, and knocked at the
the cook, ‘May I go up a little while and see what is going on? I will
Two days after there came by a travelling fiddler, who began to play
they might be, and free them, whatever it might cost her.
wounded?’ asked the horsemen. ‘You need not concern yourself about
Then a man entered who was taller than all others, and looked terrible.
watches over good children.

to see you once again before my end, promise me to marry as I wish,’ and

The girl went back to the well not knowing what to do, and at last in
‘Then they tore off her dainty clothing, and cut her beautiful body into
could get in nowhere. Then she ran out of the village, and no one has

dreary and buried in the snow. ‘A lucky hit!’ said he, as he called to
‘What have you done!’ said her mother, ‘but no one must know about it,
THE SALAD
and green feathers, and its neck like burnished gold, and eyes like two
so he went to his master, and said, ‘I have worked hard for you a long

out, ‘There, Frederick, there is the door itself, you may watch it as
thinking the cow was surely bewitched, told his man to kill her on the
The miser crept into the bush to find it; but directly he had got into

  Away be it whirl’d

wished him joy of his victory. ‘I am not the one who carried away the
to her about the great love and friendship she felt for her, that at
‘My darling, this is only a dream.’
but even before she reached the spot, she said to herself, sighing, ‘I
could not be parted from each other, he wished that she might be changed
they had been sleeping quite close to a precipice, and would certainly
making a voyage upon the seas, in which he had embarked all his wealth,
day by chance she heard the people about her speak of them. ‘Yes,’ said
that everything he touched with it was disenchanted, and that there he
Away ran Catherine, and away ran the dog across the field: but he ran
in it, your fortune would be made.’ ‘Very true: but how is that to be
 ‘Home! home! look at the shoe!
the ugly heavy stone.
home again in my arms.’ But the little peasant stood at his door, and
torn-up trees.
I bid you. You must go straight on till you come to the castle where the
‘Ah, you poor child,’ answered the old woman, ‘what a place for you to
enchanted maiden drive round her castle and then go inside. He was
at last she came to an old tower, to which there was a narrow staircase
but I am alive still, and will soon set you free.’ Then he descended
I’ll behave well. Goodbye, mother.’ ‘Goodbye, Hans.’ Hans comes to
and said: ‘I have served the king faithfully, but he has dismissed me,
star-gazer, that when he had served out his time, and wanted to leave
robbers, therefore, made him get on the horse, and handed him the stick
where he had felled the tree, he saw a man sitting, who had a very
take care that nothing falls into it, or it will be polluted. I will

groaned and said to his wife: ‘What is to become of us? How are we
Sultan had told his master what the wolf meant to do; so he laid wait


At last, as they drew near the end of their journey, this treacherous
they thought she could not live; but they said she should at once be
should be shared equally between them. Now Partlet found a very large

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
of it!’ and his heart wagged with joy like a lamb’s tail. The tailor

sort.’ So they put her into the coach, and took her home to the king’s
gave them some of the good salad to eat. And the beautiful young lady
‘Then I will try my skill,’ said the thief, and went and stole her away
lucky,’ said he, ‘I can sleep here very well’; and in he crept.
under the bench, and cudgelled all the rabble, and drove them and Mrs
But the false bride said to the prince, ‘Dear husband, pray do me one
sorrowful face. Dummling asked him what he was taking to heart so
 ‘Rapunzel, Rapunzel,
they all broke through the window at once, and came tumbling into
drink.’ ‘Nay,’ said the maid, ‘if you are thirsty, get off yourself, and
provided that:
  Nor dirty my pretty red wheels so fine!
beasts were kept, and washed herself there in a clear stream. It
but if the old woman had got me into the pan, I should have been made
hurried away with her lover.
and begged that they would set him and the sexton free. But they had
but before it got far off a wave struck it, and it fell with one side
Then the miser said, ‘Bind me fast, bind me fast, for pity’s sake.’ But
wedding was celebrated, and after the king’s death, Dummling inherited
down upon a stone and cried. And as he sat there, the king of the ants
child,’ said the old woman, ‘and you shall have it. Your stepsister has
‘Don’t be impatient,’ said Snow-white, ‘I will help you,’ and she pulled
him milk and butter and cheese, was all that time utterly dry? Hans had
was heard of or seen in that country, or indeed in any other.

The father said: ‘If it be possible, your desire shall be fulfilled,’
I ran after him, the ale ran out; and when I went to dry up the ale
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
then little Marleen laid her head down on her knees and sobbed.
 ‘All on our way
the servant-maid) stripes once a day and hay three times; and give
cow’s rick, and the cow had taken Tom up in a mouthful of it. ‘Good
In the evening he cut out the work, and went to bed early, that he might
The little tailor went onwards, always following his own pointed nose.
was mid-day, they saw a beautiful snow-white bird sitting on a bough,
for all the riches in the world.’
was caught. The little tailor called the huntsmen thither that they
yellow buttons were, they took them all away, and left her plenty of
‘Hark ye, Frederick, we will soon get the gold back: let us run after
When they came to the village, the son followed the fox’s counsel, and
honest people! Bear, you will have to pay for that!’
In the evening the seven dwarfs came home; and I need not say how

Then the cat said, ‘Take me with you,’ Chanticleer said, ‘With all my
both the bird and the horse; yet will I once more give you counsel. Go
‘Thank you kindly, wolf.’

the courtyard, and word was brought that the thirteenth fairy was
The bird flew down and took the red shoes in his left claw, and then he
her face and hands with soot. Then she threw herself upon Heaven for
in head first, tied up the sack, and soon swung up the searcher after
king, ‘you have saved the castle, and shall marry my daughter.’ ‘That
They gave him plenty of food, yet for all they could do he never grew
princess free from a spell that bound her; and how she had engaged to
too must learn something by which you can earn your bread. Look how your
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
the skin there, so that he might buy a new calf with the proceeds. On
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
became higher and thicker; till at last the old palace was surrounded
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
greatly grieved, and said to himself, ‘I will remain here and wait for
deeper into the wood.
legs would carry them no longer, they lay down beneath a tree and fell
as before, that he might see into what house she went: but she sprang
some of the window, it will taste sweet.’ Hansel reached up above, and
flock for himself, and drove it away. The parson went to the crowd,
poor child went about in fear, and had no peace from the time he left
thought to herself, ‘The gold will soon be mine.’ Mother Holle led her,
fine royal robes to be given him; and when the evening came he was led
head in your lap, and sleep a while.’ As soon as he had fallen asleep,



to the giant: ‘You are such a great fellow, and yet cannot even carry
them all up. Hansel said to Gretel: ‘We shall soon find the way,’ but
of his chamber was left open. But the king’s son soon fell asleep; and
palace, full of all kinds of wild animals. One day he sent out a
a keen scent like the beasts, and are aware when human beings draw near.
I am concerned, bread and cheese will do,’ and looked at the peasant and

wood, when my mother has forbidden me to do so.’
up and ran out, and as he crossed the threshold he lost one of his
went in an evening to take his walk, and ease his mind of a little of
trouble,’ said the third; ‘let him live, he’ll go climbing higher up the
When the horseman came up, he proved to be a student, a merry fellow,



so clumsily, that the log of wood fell in and was carried away by the




long years have I waited here for the fairy to bring you hither as she
from people in all walks of life.
mind what I say. This deed of thine shall cost thee all thou art worth.’
her fate, with the chance of someone finding and saving her.
wound them round one of the hooks of the window above, and then the hair
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
 ‘My mother killed her little son;
soldiers. When he got near the battlefield a great part of the king’s
carter, grumbling to himself, ‘You make it the worse for me, indeed!
only cinder-cake and sour beer; if that pleases you, we will sit
danced in the night, he should have the one he liked best for his
I must not tell you or any man, or I shall lose my life.’
what we intend, but first you shall look about you a little down below
the green underwood beneath, and the turtle-doves sang from the tall
As soon as it was midnight, there came in two little naked dwarfs; and
But the little maiden went out into the garden at the back of the house,
destroyed all my brethren in fire and smoke; she seized sixty of them at
himself with her at the table. And when the first servant came with a
saw three fishes caught in the reeds and gasping for water. Now, though
house no great way off, for I see a light.’ ‘If that be the case,’ said
  Your dirty daughter’s come back to you.’
to Snowdrop in her time of need.
well, and went away.
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
little kid thrust its head out, and when she had cut farther, all six
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
street to look at the bird, and saw how splendid it was with its red
sees me going in, my life will not be worth much.’ However, after a
Chanticleer; it will be better, at any rate, than staying here to have

peeped in. ‘Well, Donkey,’ said Chanticleer, ‘what do you see?’ ‘What
his kingdom and lived for a long time contentedly with his wife.
(whose life he had saved) came to help him, with five thousand ants; and

his own course; and he did not choose to be given up to his hump-backed
though her own life depended on it?’ The king replied: ‘Yes, I would
the horses harnessed to his carriage, drove out to the village, and
huntsman to shoot him a roe, but he did not come back. ‘Perhaps some
her face and hands, and then went in and curtsied to him, and he reached
began and said: ‘Dear friends, from whence do you come here?’ The coal
tree in the green meadow outside, and began to sleep. Soon afterwards
the stone round his neck like a collar, and flew back with it to the
looking very strange.
and left me to hunger, and now I want to take my revenge.’ ‘What am I to
her, and the bells rang at each step which she took. Then she was
her arms, had flown down, snatched it away, and set it on the high tree.
said she. The next was too short: ‘What a dumpling!’ said she. The

ill done, Hans, you should have led the calf, and put it in the stall.’
        
so much honey that it ran down the trunk; and the two brothers wanted to
and drink she had left for him, she finished with the following words:
dinner ready, and he brought their food upon seven little plates, and
take care and stand behind the door.’ And the cook said, ‘Yes, you may
a baker’s oven. And thus she had some joke to crack upon every one: but
Then away they hastened with her full of joy in their boat towards the
well to find out where it is that the princesses dance, and then in time
the fifty talers, and said: ‘Well do you know how to shudder?’ ‘No,’
while I went down to draw the ale, the dog ran away with it; and while
and this time her coachman and everything about her, as well as her
fiddler called her up very early in the morning to clean the house. Thus
The third day one of the messengers came back, and said, ‘I have
it has lived so well!’ ‘You’re right,’ said Hans, as he weighed it in
over this by night in his bed, and tossed about in his anxiety, he
the battle!’ But the young wrens said: ‘We will not eat yet, the bear
princess free. ‘I will soon find out where she is, however,’ said the
to be married. One day they went to walk in the wood, that they might be
with an easy mind.
do. ‘Would not you like,’ said he, ‘to be a tailor?’ ‘Oh, no!’ said
The girls came just in time; they held him fast and tried to free his
whoever tasted it was sure to die. Then she dressed herself up as a
too. The carter was mad with fury; and without looking about him, or
had found a cloak which rendered its wearer invisible; and the third had
till she came and set him free; which she would not do till he had given
brothers said to each other, ‘Here is a chance for us; let us try
When he got down, the five of them were sitting screaming and lamenting
The girls had run away, but the bear called to them: ‘Snow-white and
table, and the fifth in the middle, and said to the huntsman, ‘Cut all
heard what their stepmother had said to their father. Gretel wept
fetched herself a chair, and set it before the barrel so that she had
always spoke the truth, and was sure that the servant had betrayed her.
shoemaker, with the money, bought leather enough to make two pairs more.
KING GRISLY-BEARD
The two strangers were all this time looking on, and did not know what
The next morning, as they were going through the dark gate, the poor
Full of joy he took it to the king and expected that he would grant him
wilt reward me well and entreat me kindly; but thou must tarry yet an
inside, but not a soul was to be seen, and a great silence reigned
he was so handsome that all were amazed. ‘Are you the knight who came
had to be done, it was always the elder who was forced to do it; but
than all the world; so come with me to my father’s palace, and you shall

with a calf. ‘Goodbye, Gretel.’ ‘Goodbye, Hans.’
are going to be hanged.’ As he came nearer, he saw that the two men were
urchin is only trying to make fools of us.’ So they came back and
again,’ said the tailor, ‘you would all have been drowned, therefore she


with the goose for the king’s dinner upon it; the butler finished his
thine.’ ‘Ah! wretch that I am!’ sighed she; ‘why did I not marry King
 ‘Open the door, my princess dear,
 ‘Blow, breezes, blow!

  Haste ye, haste ye!--pick, pick, pick!’
his master, he gave him a glass, and said, ‘With this you can see all
it was the wolf, by the rough voice. ‘We will not open the door,’ cried
we flew over the sea to the end of the world, where the Tree of Life
spring of water, that rose in the midst of it, she sat herself down

where the geese fed; how his hat was blown away; and how he was forced

night came on, they laid themselves down near one another upon the moss,
shepherd hearing that, came up to him, and asked: ‘What are you about?
in every respect that he knew nothing and learnt nothing. ‘Just think,’
  Let down your hair to me.’
Now, as she had not been asked to the feast she was very angry, and
  Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!’
LITTLE RED-CAP [LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD]
‘Husband, there is not near room enough for us in this cottage; the
birds of the air came too, and bemoaned Snowdrop; and first of all came
He glared at the girls with his fiery red eyes and cried: ‘Why do you
 ‘O man of the sea!

out, the bear will do you no harm, he means well.’ So they both came
out and that all seemed quiet, they began to think that they had been in
as you please!’ Then he put him back into the water, and the fish darted
stayed till the feast was over, and then went back to the wood.
Then they went to their brother, and laughed at him, and said, ‘Well,
at last they awoke, it was already dark night. Gretel began to cry and
  Hansel and Gretel are waiting for thee?
cow-herd answered: ‘It is still standing out there eating. It would not
the gardener knew not what in the world to do with it, nor whether it

and evening, that there she might still see him sometimes. Then the
ounces, dear woman, and if it is a quarter of a pound that is of no
were in a sound sleep. When the giants came up to him, the first pushed
it is said that fishes are dumb, he heard them lamenting that they must
it out. He watched them for a while quietly, but at last when they were
spin; but the threads cut her tender fingers till the blood ran. ‘See
you may imagine how she wept over her poor children.
roguish jokes; but throw us out some of the money.’ Then Tom called out
the wild beasts roared about her, but none did her any harm. In the

am!’ The giant read: ‘Seven at one stroke,’ and thought that they had

near it became larger and brighter, till they at last came close to a
and as the stones in his stomach made him very thirsty, he wanted to
going on; and he saw her in the courtyard. As she looked very pretty,
When they had eaten and drank, and were very merry, the old king said
suddenly stopped, the doors opened, and a stately king came in with a


her, but you must settle amongst yourselves which it is to be.’ Then
  Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!’
they fell down: and as the dog still wished for more, she took him to
some water, and cook something good for your brother, he is in the

friend, the pin, had been at a public-house a few miles off, and had sat
with such force, that he fell down dead. ‘Unlucky wretch that I am!’
bird very easily; and when he had gone but a little way, he came to a
twelve princesses stood listening behind the door to hear what he would
shoe, that her white stockings were quite red. So he turned his horse
dainty clothing, laid her on a table, and cut her beautiful body into


of water; and upon the stream there stood a mill. The miller’s house was
The path led him into a wood, and there he saw two old ravens standing
Then she did as she was told; but when all was done she could not help
soon learn how to shudder.’ ‘If that is all that is wanted,’ answered
THE STORY OF THE YOUTH WHO WENT FORTH TO LEARN WHAT FEAR WAS
opened the house-door; then the woman was forced to give up the keys,
saying, ‘I bring you the dish myself that you may not wait any longer.’
them free, though unwillingly, saying, ‘Beware of them, for they have
sworn to give you to the first comer, and I will keep my word.’ So words
her father’s death; but his two brothers married the other two sisters.
The soldier returned to the town from which he came. He went to the
be broken.’ So the bear crept thither in the greatest fear, and begged
mayor said: ‘I come first.’ So they went to the water together, and just
‘But, grandmother, what big eyes you have!’ she said.
after all, they are the heaviest.’ The giant took the trunk on his
something.’ ‘What did Gretel give you?’ ‘Gave me a bit of bacon.’ ‘Where
‘What!’ said he, ‘is that the way you thank me? You shall at once go

into the soup; if it be so, you will have a good beating.’ Then he went
help. ‘Willingly,’ said the tailor, ‘that is child’s play!’ He did not
close to the edge of the waves, and said:
Two kings’ sons once upon a time went into the world to seek their

feather for herself, but she had scarcely touched her sister than she

elder brothers would have pulled it down, in order to see how the poor
cow-beef; it is not tender enough for me. If it were a pig now--like
woman said: ‘There is some enchantment behind it, listen very early some
you do not understand anything about it.’ But Dummling begged so long


crying and screaming to her mother. ‘Oh!’ she said, ‘I have knocked off
They walked the whole night long, and by break of day came once more
  Of all the ladies in the land,
will you prove that to me?’ ‘Oh, just let some peas be strewn in the
left the children in the forest; the woman, however, was dead. Gretel
again.
University. Jacob was a pioneer in the study of German philology,
became known that the old fox was dead, suitors presented themselves.
sea, till they came to the right place. There they found the princess
horse on the shoulder, and said, ‘Jip! Dobbin! Jip!’ Then up he sprang,
my misery, for I feel as if the world were coming to an end.’
anything about, and where no one can find you out.’ So the young man
The maid happened to be just then milking the cow; and hearing someone
request to make to him. In a forest of his country lived two giants,
At last they came to a small cottage. ‘What a paltry place!’ said she;
child had the power of wishing, and stole it away, and he took a hen,
overflowing with rage and vexation. ‘Alas!’ said he to his wife, ‘what
top off, then half-done, then--’ ‘Will you hold your tongue,’ cried the
while he perceived both giants. They lay sleeping under a tree, and
they came nearer they saw a dwarf with an old withered face and a
‘Listen, I have a good idea, there is our gossip the carpenter, he shall
behave well. Goodbye, mother.’ ‘Goodbye, Hans.’ Hans comes to Gretel.
cover of the basket came off, so that the meats in it fell about. Then

sugarloaf hat, and a new scarlet cloak.
spring. As soon as the young princess saw her ball, she ran to pick
then the woman fell down again as if dead.
so she said to him, ‘Before I marry anyone I must have three dresses:
the wild beasts. When the king saw the blood on her apron, he believed
as before. But the lazy girl answered, ‘Do you think I am going to dirty
where it is to be found?’ asked the dwarf. ‘No,’ said the prince, ‘I do
Then all rode farther on their journey, till the day grew so warm, and
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
the water; it sounded as if he were calling them, and the whole crowd
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
body with a strap, and making an awful face, and saying: ‘I have eaten a
At length in her grief she went out, and the youngest kid ran with her.
snored on, and did not stir hand or foot: so they thought they were
the door will shut upon you for ever.’
be my wife.’ And Snowdrop consented, and went home with the prince;
home.’ When they got home, the cook asked if they had not found them;
be burnt to a cinder; we were baked through long ago,’ cried the loaves
thousands of birds which fly about in the woods and fields had picked
The shepherd did as she bade him, and next morning just as day dawned,
him she had heard of his father having forgiven him, and of his wish to
Not long afterwards, the country was overrun by war. The king gathered
comb. When she reached the dwarfs’ cottage, she knocked at the door, and
fits.’ Then both the sisters were overjoyed to hear it; for they

One evening, as they were thus sitting comfortably together, someone
And round about the wheel went merrily; the work was quickly done, and
  For next day will a stranger bring.
Hans takes Gretel, ties her to a rope, leads her to the rack, and binds
let him in: but whoever rode on one side of it, they must be sure was
pry and steal; and what once gets into their hands, and in their caves,
setting out upon, asked him what craft he meant to follow. ‘I do not
the sea, it looked blue and gloomy, though it was very calm; and he went
princes who came to ask her in marriage was good enough for her, and she
attracted and descended on it in hosts. ‘Hi! who invited you?’ said the
up and grunted, and ran away, roaring out, ‘Look up in the tree, there
Scarcely were the words out of her mouth, when the child in her arms was
another wife. At last, however, his wise men said, ‘this will not do;
bow, and down fell the thrush into the bushes at the foot of the tree.
Gretel out to the oven, from which flames of fire were already darting.
fuel, he said, ‘I wish I had someone to bring the cart after me, for I

she instantly snatched at his cap, and wanted to take it away from him,
The words were hardly out of her mouth when the godless crew returned,
be sure he has served us, but then he did it to earn his livelihood;
shoes with high heels on her feet, and a long white wand in her hand:
who was of an impetuous disposition, tripped quite boldly on to the

the boar perceived the tailor, it ran on him with foaming mouth and
to the nobleman’s castle, the table was spread, and Crabb was told to
thou has judged thyself, so shall it be done to thee.’ And the young
and were all carried away by the stream and drowned.
wonderful; this happens just as the old woman said’; then he shot into
her, ‘I will throw this dishful of peas into the ash-heap, and if in
Now it so happened that on this very day the queen lost her most


answered: ‘Your brothers have hurt themselves with it, leave it alone,

a great many years, but was now growing old and every day more and more
apple left upon it. Then she carefully gathered the apples together in a
  The door she knocks at tap, tap, tap,
quickly, dress ourselves, and go away together.’
believed that their father was near. It was not the axe, however, but
straight in the air, they thought she was carrying a sword for Sultan to
lay, was thrown out upon a dunghill.
As the raven drove along her four chestnut horses, she said sorrowfully

said, ‘I dare not let anyone in, for the dwarfs have told me not.’ ‘Do
a thick wood, at the end of which was a large castle in a green meadow,
1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
  Turtle-doves and linnets, fly!
‘I will tell you a dream, then,’ said the bride. ‘I went alone through a
him. When four weeks had gone by, and Hansel still remained thin, she
